page_name: hiiraanpage, post_id: 4126265964055678 https://www.hiiraan.com/news4/2020/Dec/181002/barcelona_star_griezmann_cuts_huawei_ties_over_uighur_persecution.aspx?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=facebook
Footballer cited reports that the Chinese telecoms giant was involved in the surveillance of Uighur Muslims. Griezmann, a 29-year-old forward who was one of the leading members of the France team that won the 2018 World Cup in Russia, has been a Huawei brand ambassador since 2017 [File: Joan Monfort/AP Photo] Barcelona footballer and French national team member Antoine Griezmann has announced he is cutting ties with Chinese technology giant Huawei over the continuing persecution of Uighurs in Xinjiang province. Griezmann cited reports of Huawei’s involvement in the surveillance of Uighur Muslims as the reason for ending his contract as a brand ambassador with them on Thursday. “Following strong suspicions that Huawei has contributed to the development of a ‘Uighurs alert’ through the use of facial recognition software, I am immediately ending my partnership with the company,” Griezmann said in an Instagram post. “I am taking this opportunity to invite Huawei to not just be happy with denying these accusations but to implement action as quickly as possible to condemn this mass persecution and use its influence to contribute to respecting rights of men and women throughout society,” he added. The United Nations estimates that more than one million Turkic Muslims – most of them ethnic Uighurs – have been detained in camps in the far western province of Xinjiang. Griezmann’s statement comes after the United States-based surveillance research firm, IPVM, said in a report on Tuesday that Huawei had been involved in testing facial recognition software in China that could send alerts to police when it recognised the faces of Uighur people. Griezmann, a 29-year-old forward who was one of the leading members of the France team that won the 2018 World Cup in Russia, has been a Huawei brand ambassador since 2017. Simon Chadwick, professor at Eurasian Sports Industry, told Al Jazeera that – in terms of athletes terminating sponsorship deals with Chinese companies – “this is pretty unprecedented”. “What Griezmann has done is that he has not only spoken but acted as well,” he added. Chadwick noted that the move was “very significant” since China has been a source of a lucrative business, “not just for individuals athletes, but for European clubs in general”. Conscience over money Uighur activist Jewher Ilham told Al Jazeera from Washington, DC she had “huge respect” for Griezmann, and others who have spoken in favour of Uighurs, like footballer Mesut Ozil and singer Zara Larsson, people who she said are “willing to choose their conscience over the money”. “We know how hard of a step this could be. And I’m afraid [Griezmann] may face retaliation for his action,” she said. Ilham is the daughter of Uighur economist Ilham Tothi who was sentenced to life in prison in 2014 on separatism charges and has been jailed in China. Activists say the detention camps aim to erase the ethnic and religious identities of Turkic Muslims and ensure their loyalty to the Chinese government. Beijing denies the accusations, describing camps as vocational training centres to help stamp out “religious extremism” in the troubled province. People who were in the camps described being subjected to forced political indoctrination, torture and denial of food and medicine, and say they have been prohibited from practising their religion or speaking their language. Earlier this year, US President Donald Trump signed legislation calling for sanctions on China over the repression of Uighurs. After a year of planning, Ritual Day Spa found itself opening up at a time when ‘people couldn’t pay the rent.’ - Sahan Journal
______________________________________page_name: hiiraanpage, post_id: 4104277562921185 https://www.hiiraan.com/news4/2020/Dec/180919/more_african_countries_are_relying_on_an_israeli_surveillance_tool_to_snoop_on_private_citizens.aspx?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=facebook
As African governments crack down on protestors and opposition leaders in countries such as Nigeria and Uganda, it is emerging that state security agencies in seven regional countries are among 25 around the world using an Israeli surveillance platform to snoop on private communications of citizens. A new report names Nigeria, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Equatorial Guinea, Morocco, and Zambia as the African countries that have been employing Circles’ surveillance platforms to exploit flaws in telecoms systems and to access telephone calls, SMS messages and location services. The report by the University of Toronto’s Citizen Lab titled Running in Circles: Uncovering the Clients of Cyberespionage Firm Circles offers new perspectives detailing how the telecom surveillance company, Circles has deployed its platforms across Africa, helping state security departments to snoop on communications of opposition politicians, journalists, and protestors. It’s worth noting Circles is said to be affiliated with Tel Aviv-based NSO Group, which became globally known last year for the Pegasus spyware scandal after it was reported to have been used to exploit a vulnerability in the popular WhatsApp app to spy opposition organizers in several countries. One such example is Botswana, where Citizen Lab has detailed how the Directorate for Intelligence and Security’s domain was used to identify two snooping systems linked to Circles platforms. This was undertaken through cryptographic TLS certificates signed under “CN=sid.org.bw” which is a domain name linked to the country’s state security and defense department. The targets for this surveillance seemed to have been media houses, journalists, and their sources in cases involving corruption by politicians. The outbreak of EndSARS protests in Nigeria, where young citizens demonstrated peacefully against the heavy-handed and violent nature of the now-disbanded SARS police unit, triggered a deadly state security crackdown on protestors features followed by various attempts by the government to infiltrate and undermine protest organizers. This is not new, Front Line Defenders had already concluded in a 2018 report that that the Nigerian government “has conducted mass surveillance of citizens’ telecommunications.” But it’s not just the countries facing protests that are resorting to surveillance of private communications of citizens. In Zambia, for example, there is a entire cyber-surveillance unit in the office of the country’s telecommunications regulator. As in Uganda more recently, Zambia and several other African countries have relied on a mix of Chinese-bought facial recognition and digital surveillance tools from companies including Huawei and Cloudwalk. As internet penetration and smartphone usage increases with young Africans, social media has become more influential for organizing civil society and opposition movements across Africa. This has led to several governments shutting down the internet or blocking social media apps especially around elections and protests. But given the economic cost of shutdowns and widespread criticism, covert surveillance of digital footprints may now be seen as a more effective option. Hiding behind code names or completely operating behind anonymous domains is an emerging trend for African state departments undertaking covert surveillance of private citizens as there was an unidentified client using Circles’ platform in Zimbabwe, in addition to another client going by the code name “Zagato Zeus”. Another client, Zimbabwe Telcel has also been identified as having relied on Circles’ platform for surveillance of private telecommunications in the southern African country. Equatorial Guinea, which has previously shut down the internet, also had an anonymous client using surveillance systems while Telco Kali Rainbow was identified as being behind usage of a surveillance system geo-located to Mauritius but traced back to IP addresses in Kenya. As surveillance of private citizens’ communications increases across Africa, there are fresh worries that telecom companies are not yet adequately geared to deal with this trend. “Abuse of the global telephone system for tracking and monitoring is believed to be widespread, however it is difficult to investigate,” notes Citizen Lab in its report. “Meanwhile, cellular carriers have many technical difficulties identifying and blocking abuses of their infrastructure.” After nine years of indefatigable struggle, Somalia’s free trade union movement has been totally vindicated - Equal Times
______________________________________page_name: hiiraanpage, post_id: 2093395277342767 https://www.hiiraan.com/news4/2018/Apr/157627/pakistan_to_get_faster_internet_through_china_s_submarine_cable_reaching_somalia_and_djibouti.aspx
Business Recorder Named PEACE (Pakistan East Africa Cable Express), the cable will have two landing routes in Karachi and Gwadar and will stretch across Europe and Africa. The project will be built by Huawei Marine and will be funded by Tropic Science Co., Ltd (Tropical Science). It will be managed by the telecom giant PCCW Global, headquarted in Hong Kong. As per Huawei, the cable’s deployment has already been started and is expected to be active by the end of 2019. The new high tech cable will have more than 60TB capacity. During its first phase, PEACE will contain a 6,200km network that will connect Pakistan in Gwadar and Karachi with Djibouti, Somalia and Kenya, eventually spanning 13,000km, reaching South Africa and Egypt. China to launch two satellites for Pakistan in June Moreover, Pakistan’s cellular provider Jazz and internet service provider (ISP) Cybernet will be the probable partners of the PEACE cable in Pakistan. The new cable system will give Pakistan more reliable and significant boost in the internet connectivity, reported Tech Juice. ICT expert Parvez Iftikhar tweeted about the PEACE submarine cable.
______________________________________page_name: The-Financial-Gazette-288500807952079, post_id: 2104087816393360 https://www.financialgazette.co.zw/econet-offers-festive-cheer-launches-massive-christmas-promotion/
MOBILE telecommunications giant Econet Wireless Zimbabwe has launched a ZW$10 million Christmas promotion that will see tens of thousands of subscribers walk away with an assortment of prizes, including refrigerators, TV sets, solar panels, data, airtime and many more. The special promotion, called “IKhisimusi sifikile Kisimusi yatosvika” (Christmas is Here!), is set to cheer millions of Zimbabweans who this year have endured a torrid time due to the negative effects of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic, amid a drought that ravaged the country in the recent months. Douglas Mboweni, Econet’s Group Chief Executive Officer, said despite all the challenges confronting our country, the company saw it fit to celebrate and shower its customers with Christmas gifts as an appreciation of their continued support. “We are giving our customers the assurance that even though it was a tough year, we still very much appreciate their custom and business, and have prepared a Christmas gift for them,” he said. The promotion, which is running from November 19 to December 31, 2020, will see subscribers winning several gifts over the next six weeks, valued at ZW$10 million. To win the prizes, the company said Econet subscribers will be expected to participate in the company’s various promotional events and platforms, including instore and special radio and online programmes. For example, if a customer buys a Huawei phone on promotion, they can receive a guaranteed free gift such as selfie-stick, headphones or a phone cover. Customers will also receive 6GB of free data for any data capable device purchased from any Econet shop during the period. Zimbabwe’s largest mobile network operator has also lined up eight online regional shows where customers can win prizes for liking Econet Social Media pages and joining the live shows. “Prizes will be thrown in during the show and participating customers will be eligible to win prizes. Over 120 prizes worth ZW$4 million will be issued at every show, which will be broadcast live on Star FM and Radio Zimbabwe,” said the company’s Chief Commercial Officer, Navdeep Kapur. In addition, over 50 winners will walk away with prizes worth ZW$3 million from the daily radio shows to be hosted by 10 radio stations – eight regional and two national – across the country. On December 31, 2020, Econet will also host an online and live musical concert. December 31 coincides with the day the company was licensed to operate a mobile business in Zimbabwe back in 1997. At least 120 participants will win prizes worth ZW$1.5 million during the end-of-year musical concert. In an effort to ensure that everyone has a chance to win, Econet will also conduct several in-store shop promotions. “We don’t want to leave anyone behind. This competition is for all our customers, both in urban and in the rural areas. We have lowered the entry points so that anyone who spends at least ZW$200 in our participating shops will get a chance to pop a balloon and stand a chance to win various prizes. “This category will see over 23 000 customers win ZW$1 million worth of prices such as cash, airtime and data,” Kapur said.
______________________________________page_name: The-Financial-Gazette-288500807952079, post_id: 2044628395672636 https://www.financialgazette.co.zw/task-force-to-find-huawei-replacement-in-5g-networks-launched/
The British government is launching a new telecoms diversity task force to find a supplier capable of filling the void left by a ban on Huawei’s equipment within the UK’s 5G infrastructure. Mobile networks in the UK will be banned from purchasing 5G kit from Huawei from the end of this year, leaving only two large-scale suppliers active in the British market: Ericsson and Nokia. Although the ban took place on security grounds, according to the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) the dependence on just two suppliers also introduces a significant risk for the long-term security of UK networks. The security provided by a more diverse marketplace was the main reason NCSC gave for initially assessing that Britain’s 5G networks were safer for including Huawei equipment as well as that manufactured by Ericsson and Nokia. However, following a decision by the White House to ban American companies from providing computer chips to Huawei – potentially pushing it to adopt chips produced by less trusted manufacturers – the NCSC was forced to upgrade the risk posed by Huawei equipment. The US sanctions were criticised as “arbitrary and pernicious” by Huawei, which has confirmed that 40% of the roles within its enterprise business group in the UK are being made redundant as a result. On Wednesday the government said it planned to publish a telecoms diversification strategy later this year “to address a market failure where mobile companies are limited to using just three major suppliers in their telecoms networks”.
______________________________________page_name: The-Financial-Gazette-288500807952079, post_id: 1654257518043061 https://www.financialgazette.co.zw/huawei-sees-a-us10bn-hit/
0 Comments Print EMail HUAWEI expects US export restrictions to reduce annual revenue at its consumer devices business by about US$10 billion, as the company is banned from buying American components like semiconductors and software. China’s largest technology company is seeking ways to replace key US suppliers such as Cadence Design Systems and Synopsys, deputy chairperson Eric Xu said on Friday. The overall damage to the company will be a “little less” than billionaire founder Ren Zhengfei’s initial estimate, Xu added. Huawei is seeking to develop alternatives after coming under intense pressure from the Trump Administration, which has argued its technology represents a security threat. On Friday, it introduced its most powerful artificial intelligence chipset, the Ascend 910, which is poised to rival some of the best offerings from Qualcomm and Nvidia. Earlier this month, it offered the first glimpse of an in-house software – HarmonyOS that may someday replace Google’s Android. The company is also researching ways to replace chip-design software tools offered by Cadence and Synopsys, Xu told a news briefing in Shenzhen without elaborating. “There were no chip design tools 10 years ago, but the industry still developed chips,” said Xu, who argued that Cadence and Synopsys were not must-haves for design. “Intel started to develop chips in the 1970s, when those companies didn’t exist.” Since May, Huawei has occupied the uncomfortable position of being both an established global brand and a member of the US Entity List, which bars it from trading freely with American suppliers. Despite a series of 90-day reprieves, the latest of which came this week, the uncertainty caused by American sanctions has already cost the company a great deal. Already, it reported slower sales growth in the second quarter compared to the first as the ban started to bite, especially into a consumer business encompassing smartphones and laptops.That in turn is accelerating Huawei’s effort to become self-reliant. One area in which the Chinese company is rapidly developing in-house expertise is semiconductors, propelling Beijing’s ambitions of weaning itself off foreign chips. HiSilicon — Huawei’s chip design subsidiary — has been developing its capabilities for a long time, and it’s recently grown into the second largest customer (after Apple) for the world’s biggest chip manufacturing contractor Taiwan Semiconductor. Huawei has also elevated the presence of home-grown technologies throughout its product line from base stations to smartphones and servers as a key step to limiting the damage of the US ban. The Ascend 910 processor unveiled on Friday is a show of technological prowess. It will be used for AI model training, and Huawei says it outperforms all existing competition. Xu proclaimed that “without a doubt, it has more computing power than any other AI processor in the world.” The company also unveiled MindSpore, an AI computing framework that — along with the 910 — is supposedly twice as fast as Google’s TensorFlow.” — Bloomberg
______________________________________page_name: The-Financial-Gazette-288500807952079, post_id: 1556808981121249 https://www.financialgazette.co.zw/apple-iphone-sales-drop-at-record-pace/
SALES of Apple’s iPhones fell at their steepest-ever rate, according to data for the three months to the end of March. The firm said revenue from the iPhone dropped by 17 percent, compared with the same period a year earlier, to $31 billion. However, Apple chief executive Tim Cook said sales were stronger towards the end of March, including in China where it cut iPhone prices to boost demand. Apple lifted its outlook for the three months to June. That sent shares more than 5 percent higher in after-hours trading. The company had warned of slowing iPhone sales earlier this year, especially in China, where Apple competes with cheaper rivals such as Huawei Technologies and Xiaomi. But Cook said price adjustments in China, lower Chinese taxes on the iPhone and new trade-in and financing deals helped sales start to recover toward the end of the quarter. He also credited improving demand for products such as the Apple Watch, along with progress in US-China trade talks. “The trade relationship, versus the previous quarter, is better. The tone is better,” Cook told Reuters. “The sum of all of this together, it helped us.” Apple has lifted its guidance for its third quarter revenue to between $52,5 billion and $54,5 billion. For the three months to March, total sales hit $58 billion compared to analysts’ estimates of $57,3 billion. However, that is below total sales of $61,1 billion in the second quarter last year. And while demand improved in China, sales in the region were still down by 20 percent. Profits for the second quarter fell to $11,5 billion compared to $13,8 billion in the same period a year ago. Apple is attempting to shift its reliance on the iPhone towards services and last month unveiled its new TV streaming platform, Apple TV+, to take on the likes of more established companies such as Netflix. — BBC
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 1096634367444300 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/bidens-foreign-policy-challenges-vis-a-vis-the-other-elephants-in-the-room-russia-europe-and-the-united-kingdom/
Breakfast With Bwana It will be difficult to get all these challenges right, easy to muck it up By Anil Madan On December 7, the anniversary of Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbour, it is instructive to think how Japan and the U.S., two former enemies as recently as in the second World War, each the object of a signature devastating attack on the other — acknowledging, of course, that the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were a spatial dimension apart from Pearl Harbour — have achieved a rapprochement that would have been unthinkable in 1941 or 1945. Today, the U.S. and Japan are allies and dependent on each other in a mostly constructive relationship. Vietnam provides another example that post-war peaceful and cooperative coexistence is possible with a communist country. Photo – Getty Images In my first commentary on the foreign policy challenges facing future President Biden, I emphasized how India and the U.S. once less than fast friends could and probably will emerge as indispensable partners, driven there by the necessity of dealing cooperatively and cohesively with China. The examples of Japan and Vietnam should provoke President-elect Biden and his advisers to take an enlightened view of the U.S.’s relations with China, seeing an opportunity to build a constructive and cooperative, maybe even friendly, relationship. There is much to be gained by encouraging China to agree on rules of conduct that will govern competition within acceptable rules and norms while also joining with the U.S., Europe, and Britain to solve common problems with global ramifications. We will return to China in future commentaries. For now, let us focus on the other elephants — or rather, ancient mastodons — in the room that cannot and should not be ignored: Russia, Europe, and the United Kingdom. Obviously, Turkey and NATO must be brought into the matrix. Russia’s ongoing diplomatic guerilla war Russia continues to present the most difficult, but not the most important challenge for the U.S. Having lost almost every major economic and diplomatic battle and certainly the Cold War to the U.S., Russia is an ungracious combatant refusing to concede that hostilities should be ended. Led by Putin, Russia remains engaged in an ongoing diplomatic guerilla war, taking potshots here and there at the U.S. The lesson here is that we are paying the price for not having had the wisdom and foresight to agree on competition under acceptable rules and norms. The agreements that the U.S. and the Soviet Union made on arms control, missiles, and nonproliferation were illusory. Neither side wanted to be destroyed. Neither side was about to risk self-destruction by attempting a preemptive first strike. Yet, we wasted enormous bandwidth on agreements that would have been unnecessary if we had instead focused on build a constructive trading and economic relationship. With each country seeing the other’s economic system as incompatible with its own, Russia and the U.S. never stopped to imagine where they might cooperate. The time has come to change our approach and rebuild our relationship with Russia and use the lessons of the past not to make the same mistake with China. It is not difficult to see that America has little to gain from continuing conflict with Russia and perhaps little to lose as well but the ongoing distraction caused by Russia’s nagging presence on the world scene invades bandwidth needed to deal with other more pressing problems. Russia is simply not an existential threat to the U.S. or to Europe despite its capability to cause much destruction. But to what end? Russia itself would not survive a preemptive attack on Western Europe or the U.S. On the other side, neither the EU nor the U.S. has anything to gain from the destruction of Russia. A constructive relationship is possible if the U.S. encourages Russia’s role as a major supplier of natural gas to Europe. In turn, Europe can be an important source of needed food and manufactured goods for Russia. President Biden must make it clear, however, that Russia cannot use its gas supply to exert leverage as it did with Ukraine. Russia’s agreement to engage with the U.S. and Europe based on constructive rules and norms would, in turn, allow Russia access to American technology as well as free access to capital, credit, and banking networks. These accommodations will allow Russia to upgrade its infrastructure and to deploy its income from supplying gas to improve the lives of its people. This challenge for America is made all the more difficult because the U.S. must feel an unwelcome stranger when looking across the pond, whether it is at Russia, the EU countries, Turkey, or even the NATO alliance. The exception is, of course, Britain. This state of affairs is not entirely Donald Trump’s fault although he is the author of much of the chaos that prevails. Biden’s primary task will be to convince European countries that there is no binary choice between the U.S. and Russia as we move forward. Rather, the common threads of Democracy and western concepts of freedom, natural justice, due process, human rights, and competition in free markets, should define the matrix into which Russia is welcomed. Donald Trump’s scolding of Angela Merkel and Germany over the Russia-Germany gas pipeline was misplaced and counterproductive. There was no chance that Germany would forgo a source of cheap energy even if the deal entails the risk of overdependence on Russia. That kind of behaviour from an American president may have the perverse effect that European countries will resent American interference and be driven to do deals with Russia that ignore the common interests of western countries. Avoiding that kind of lose-lose situation is a delicate proposition that requires keen attention on the part of the U.S. and European countries. In due course, a similar clarity with China will be needed as Europe, Britain, African, and Latin American countries become more accepting of Chinese technology such as Huawei’s 5G networks and devices. Reliable allies: Britain and the U.S. Britain and the U.S. have long had a special relationship made stronger by America’s military and financial support during World War II. The U.S. and the U.K. have been reliable allies standing up for each other over the decades since. The relationship is about to be put to the test as Britain and the EU enter the final stages of the Brexit dance. With Britain committed to its Brexit strategy, America is in the delicate position of supporting and protecting Britain while not antagonizing the EU. Britain and the EU have important trading relations with the U.S., and each is an important market for each other. But there are difficult emotional, economic, and practical problems. There is an almost visceral opposition in Britain and America to the EU’s moralizing, political correctness, and regulatory overreach. This translates to sympathetic understanding, even support from Americans of Britain’s rejection of governance from Brussels. The EU’s regulators seem determined to show America and American companies who is boss. The task for the U.S. president is to forge a regulatory scheme in common with the EU so that American and European companies can do business in without having to comply with disparate regulatory requirements and risk prosecution and disciplinary administrative sanctions for antitrust, privacy compliance, and intellectual property management. In effect, a Biden administration will have to convince the EU’s regulators that European sovereignty is not at issue here, that Europe must abandon the need to impose punitive sanctions on American companies. In short, finding a way to treat the U.S., the EU, and the U.K. as a common market while maintaining the independence of each is the task for the next decade. One part of the solution is to undertake the Herculean task of a common regulatory regimen. European and British advisers can participate with American regulators in oversight of companies with American advisers being granted reciprocal participation. The future of NATO All of this is complicated by deciding the future of NATO. Conceived initially as the continental bulwark against Soviet aggression, and now a de facto dinner club to which Russia does not belong, NATO still serves an important function. In bringing Europe’s previously warring states together, NATO has helped forge peace on the Continent and, indeed, made it possible to imagine that cooperation could be extended and that imagination led to the EC and the EU. But is NATO really necessary as a military defense network against Russia? Probably not. Here Biden’s chief task and biggest challenge are not to sell this notion to Europe, but rather to convince Putin that America no longer regards Russia as an existential threat or cares to engage in continuing hostilities. There are reports that Putin may step down from the Russian presidency in 2021. That may or may not be a good thing. If Putin is replaced by another paranoid ex-KGB nationalist, Russia’s ultra-sensitive approach to its diminished status on the world stage may continue unabated. On the other hand, if the U.S. and Europe see Russia as a potential market with opportunities for investment, development, and cooperation, the easing of tensions will redound to the benefit of Europe and America and hopefully improve the lives of the Russian people. Convincing Russia to change course could be as simple as getting enlightened American and Russian leaders to understand and acknowledge that neither country has much to show for seven decades of suspicion and mistrust. The ongoing cooperation with respect to the ISS suggests that there is merit to a change of course. In the twenty-first century, it should be clear to Russia that no European country has designs on Russian territory and certainly, the U.S. does not. What about the other way around? Does Russia present an existential threat to Europe? It is simply too difficult to predict what Russia might do with respect to any of the former Soviet Republics. The experience with Crimea, Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, and Putin’s veiled threats concerning Belarus cannot be ignored. But it is unlikely that Russian aggression will extend to Germany which is now a major customer for Russian natural gas and a source of foreign exchange. France and the U.K. are nuclear powers. The rest of Europe offers no strategic opportunities for Russia in today’s world. Turkey is the wild card here. It has sought membership in the EU but been denied. Whether true or not, the perception is that the European countries were not too anxious to have open borders with an Islamic country even if it viewed itself as secular. Whether that rejection led President Erdogan to erode Turkey’s secular nature is not clear. But it is difficult to see Turkey being invited to join the EU any time soon. Meanwhile, Turkey has turned to Russia for military equipment and become more belligerent on the world stage. The danger here is that Turkey will continue to pivot away from its alliances with Europe and cause more havoc with Greece, in the Middle East, and with Israel. The challenge for President Biden is to stop this erosion of what has generally been a productive and cooperative relationship with Turkey in its tracks and re-engage with that country. It will be difficult to get all these challenges right, easy to muck it up. Cheerz… Bwana * Published in print edition on 11 December 2020
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 1024473564660381 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/mauritius-is-stagnating-and-the-outlook-is-not-rosy/
Interview: Sameer Sharma, Data Science Consultant & former Central Banker * ‘unemployment, seasonality adjusted monthly Government tax revenues and near zero tourist arrival numbers point to a Mauritian L-shaped recovery’ * ‘If one were to assume that all will be over soon with a magical vaccine and that Mauritius will have a miraculous V-shaped recovery: Wishful thinking’ Sameer Sharma, Data Science Consultant currently based in the US and former Central Banker, argues in today’s interview for a “gradualist risk managed border opening strategy”. The collapse in aggregate demand in the economy, he says, is significant and “neither the MIC, interest rate cuts, moratoriums on interest payments nor the wage assistance scheme will be able to make up for the large slack if we do not adopt a gradualist risk managed border opening strategy and implement stimulus measures more efficiently and soon.” As regards what type of recovery we should expect post Covid, he says that real economic indicators such as unemployment, seasonality adjusted monthly Government tax revenues and near zero tourist arrival numbers point to a Mauritian L-shaped recovery. Mauritius Times: How is the Mauritian economy performing relative to the rest of the world more than eight months since the start of the Covid-19 crisis? Sameer Sharma: As at the beginning of September 2020, high frequency economic data of major developed economies in North America, Europe, Australia and emerging China continued to point to a still fragile but sustained recovery with GDP growth now casts and alternative data showcasing a recovery to levels that are now nearing activity levels last seen in the pre-Covid period. While these growth indicators are positive, doubts persist. 70% of growth indicators are up compared to last month and are part of a trend seen since April but unemployment rates remain high: 8% in the United States, down from 14.7% in April. In the Eurozone, unemployment rates have moved little because of the social shock absorber system, but recently the unemployment rate has begun to rise from 7.3% to 7.9%: a limited variation but potentially the beginning of a trend that should be followed carefully. The same applies to default rates especially for non-investment grade companies (Anything below this ‘BBB’ rating is considered non-investment grade. If the company or bond is rated ‘BB’ or lower it is known as junk grade, in which case the probability that the company will repay its issued debt is deemed to be speculative). Many other emerging economies which are less prepared to deal with the pandemic or like Mauritius which have chosen to close borders are lagging behind with Mauritius being one of the worst laggards right now. Source: MSCI data, SEMTRI USD Index * Have the unconventional monetary and fiscal measures taken by the Government worked so far? Mauritian policy makers have announced more unconventional monetary policy (quasi helicopter money) measures than almost any other country on earth as a percentage of its GDP, but the SEMTRI1 which had already been lagging behind its emerging and developed market peers over the past 5 years has barely recovered and is now well behind even African equities. Other real economic indicators such as unemployment, seasonality adjusted monthly Government tax revenues and near zero tourist arrival numbers point to a Mauritian L-shaped recovery. In sum, Mauritius is stagnating and the outlook is not rosy. * Why is Mauritius lagging behind despite more than 150 Billion Rupees of unconventional monetary policy, roughly 34.5% (150Bn/435Bn) of this year’s projected GDP? The Mauritian economy was already out of breath before the Covid-19 crisis started because we have failed to tackle our structural ills, and secondly because the non-financial private sector itself which had unspectacular free cash flow to debt metrics and return on capital metrics coming into the crisis had limited investment capacity. The blacklisting of Mauritius has not helped in terms of global business fee income and the worse is to come if we remain there for long. Foreign villa investment flows and tourism receipts which kept old skeletons in the closet for years have seen their taps shut off. The collapse in aggregate demand in the economy is significant and neither the MIC, interest rate cuts, moratoriums on interest payments nor the wage assistance scheme will be able to make up for the large slack if we do not adopt a gradualist risk managed border opening strategy and implement stimulus measures more efficiently and soon. Mauritius hosted 1.3 million tourists last year, a figure roughly equal to its population and we have a large number of residents and local citizens stuck abroad. Wages have also been cut and all this is impacting demand. Furthermore, when you speak about these unconventional monetary policy measures, the devil in Mauritius is not about ideas but about implementation. For example, the Bank of Mauritius unlike other central banks which are engaging in asset purchases to quickly throw money into the system decided to expand its liabilities by apparently issuing Bank of Mauritius paper in order to mop up excess liquidity and grant this money to Government. As at June of 2020, the Bank of Mauritius had some MUR 79.6 Billion of monetary policy instruments as liabilities compared to more than MUR 128 Billion in January and as at last week had increased it back to MUR 110 Billion. For the BoM to make the grant, it must increase the amount outstanding by at least MUR 60 Billion. At the same time, the BoM must have enough of these monetary policy instruments so that it can maintain interest rates at a level that is consistent with its monetary policy objective. All this puts a lot of pressure on its liabilities. The Bank of Mauritius had MUR45 Billion in capital and reserves (equity) in June which is lower than the projected increase in its liabilities in order to fund the one-off grant to Government. Unless there is continued depreciation of the Rupee which will bloat the Rupee value of its foreign assets as has been happening so far, the BoM will have a tough time financing this grant and maintaining an appropriate level of economic capital. You can understand that the way the stimulus has been designed can slow down the implementation and create long lasting balance sheet complications and monetary policy implementation credibility concerns, which is why the BoM must change its strategy. It would have been better for the Government to issue a 100-year perpetual bond bought by the central bank which would have increased the latter’s assets rather than the current strategy which pushes up its liabilities. Central banks for this reason expand their balance sheets (purchase bonds to increase assets) not their liabilities. The Zimbabweans had done a similar move with their central bank a decade ago. This is not the example to emulate. The bulk of Government expenses is for now being financed with debt issuance and by the time this crisis is over our debt levels will be unsustainable even with BoM grants and we will not be able to reconcile this debt burden with that of a low tax regime anymore. This analysis ignores unfunded pension liabilities which will come home to roost soon enough. The risk of a credit downgrade will be much higher post crisis and this is not good for global business companies’ deposits held by domestic commercial banks and beyond. * Countries like the Maldives, Greece, Israel, just to name a few, opened their borders and saw an increase in Covid cases. Wouldn’t opening up our borders not hurt the economy even more if we need to impose another lockdown subsequently? We are talking about 60% to 70% effective rate for a Covid-19 vaccine. The current Russian and Chinese vaccines have an effective rate of less than 50%. Even with a vaccine, we will need to live with this virus and that assumes that everyone in Mauritius gets vaccinated. There is little clarity from Mauritian policy makers in terms of what will trigger a more pronounced opening of the border. So what will we do: shut down or have limited border openings for months or years to come and take zero risk? Are we even pre-ordering vaccines? A zero risk strategy is not a realistic strategy. I fear that the current political landscape is influencing the “it is complicated to open the borders” strategy. The more you suppress aggregate demand and bleed corporate balance sheets, the more the Zombie companies you shall create. You will suffer the consequences for years to come in the form of structural unemployment and subdued investment levels. Jobless people suffer too and a balance must be struck in order to avoid rising default risks. The lack of job creation in Mauritius, and falling tax revenues and increasing debt is not sustainable. Mauritius needs a gradualist risk managed strategy, and it needs competent people who are willing to take accountability and manage the re-opening of the borders so that we minimize the risk of a second lockdown. Beyond hotels, think about what is happening to the bloated foreign villa real estate market right now! * Are you advocating for the complete re-opening of our borders? No, I am not for a complete opening of borders at this stage, but we must start in phases and do it soon as a zero-risk strategy is a negative return strategy for sure. If you just take Beachcomber, Lux Island Resorts, Sun Resorts and Constance Hotels Services Ltd and just focus on their Mauritius sourced revenues and adjust for the first quarter of 2020, we are talking about more than MUR 14 Billion in foregone revenues for this year alone on aggregate. It will take years for revenues to come back which means that the bleed in revenues will be much more than this just for these companies and I am ignoring Air Mauritius, restaurants, smaller hotels, sugar companies turned smart city developers and so on. The rest of the world is not crazy to open up. They have realized that maintaining closures can do more harm than good especially when death rates due to Covid-19 are manageable. Mistakes are being made but they are learning from them. We must learn to live with the virus but with strict sanitary norms and do risk management. Sure, we will not be flooded with tourists at first, but it will help us get ready and be well-prepared and also it will help us not lose more market share. * Won’t the Mauritius Investment Corporation Ltd help make up for the slack? If one were to assume that all will be over soon with a magical vaccine and that Mauritius will have a miraculous V-shaped recovery, then surely that would amount to wishful thinking. When I wrote about the need to engage in unconventional monetary policy measures way back in early March, I did it because I was familiar with the realities of local corporate balance sheets and also because I think this virus and its consequences on the global economy will be with us for much longer than we could just borrow for. This crisis is a multi-round game under Game Theory and the recovery will be gradual and fragile for Mauritius. There was also a need to act quickly because Mauritius will not benefit from low levels of inflation forever and will at best only have one shot to get things right. Many of these companies operating in the tourism and manufacturing sectors did not need more debt but a more optimal capital structure that would correspond to the realities of a post-Covid world. This was why I wrote extensively about the need for convertible preferential shares v/s further debt. I also spoke about the need to have a modern private equity type fund which would strike the right balance between taxpayers getting a decent risk-adjusted return for the bailout and for these companies to get the breathing room they needed in the form of capital that was needed. A gradual opening up of borders with strict rules will also help generate some revenues. If taxpayers who own the central bank do not get a decent return on investment for the risk they will be taking, then the populist wrath will be terrible. Think about the losses and opportunity costs that can come from a badly managed MIC which loses money and is unable to save jobs. Think about smaller business owners and the average person who sees large firms getting bailouts while he is left with peanuts. A suboptimal outcome for the MIC is worse than no MIC. The idea of what is now known as the MIC was to create an off-balance sheet and bankruptcy remote special purpose vehicle with good governance like that of western peers. It would itself have an optimal funding structure financed by the state and the central bank in order to optimize its returns, and then invest in distressed albeit viable companies accompanying them in this long journey as a partner as they restructure and change business models. In order to avoid any perception of conflict of interest and get the Government out of managing private companies, I wrote about the need to have a qualified board with relevant experience in global or private markets to issue an investment policy statement. It would not just focus on returns but on impact investing criteria especially on the jobs front, and outsource the investment job to investment professionals who have proven experience and track record in distressed investing or private equity. This is not a field where one can be penny wise and pound foolish, nor can anyone google for this kind of knowledge. I still believe that we need to move in this direction and fast because the structural ills which plague the private sector will not magically disappear post Covid-19; nor will the state be able to remain the sole sheriff in town when it comes to investing in the economy for much longer. You need a healthy private sector to do that. * You spoke about structural ills which plague the Mauritian economy and you paint a gloomy outlook. Lord Desai recently spoke about Mauritius needing to follow the Estonia model, but that was before the onset of the Covid pandemic. As someone who works in the Artificial Intelligence (AI) space in the United States, what are your thoughts about Mauritius following that? Mauritius is an easy fix if you put the right people in the right places. I am concerned about the future of my country, but I am hopeful that at least one of the unintended consequences of this crisis is a less benign population who will demand better from the Government. Regarding Estonia, we need to be realistic. The level of Mathematics and Science is declining even at the local public university level; do an internet speed test on Mauritian connections and compare it to the rest of the world and see how we rank; look at the ranking of Mauritius when it comes to African Fintech startups which are receiving funding; look at the publicly available AI strategy paper for Mauritius; search for when we plan to have 5G in the smart cities and on the island… do all these and you’ll end up with the conclusion that we are perhaps aiming for Zimbabwe but certainly not Estonia. Google, Huawei and Microsoft are setting up AI research hubs in the continent, not in Mauritius. * How do we correct that perception? Rather than building a high-tech hub with bricks and mortar, we should be investing in our data infrastructure and we should be busy revamping our education system. The University of Mauritius is free yes, but how about quality? In the United States more than one third of companies struggle to implement a profitable AI strategy because AI is not easy. It is about data quality, it is about having the right information architecture with scalability in place, it is about having the best and brightest (think openness to immigrants), it is about having good AI governance to avoid unintended consequences of AI, etc. From watching parliamentary debates with the current Speaker, do we seriously believe that a sophisticated debate can be held about AI regulations? As one former Governor of the Bank of Mauritius told me last year, Mauritius is already full of artificially intelligent political nominees. We have a different kind of AI over here. Take the Safe City project which apparently has facial recognition capabilities. Typically, one uses Convolutional Neural Networks with transfer learning in order to obtain high detection rates, but what I can tell you is that such models have been found to be as racist as the data which feeds them especially against African Americans having high false positive rates (rejections and security alerts). Did we even think about such unintended consequences in Mauritius? Will we conduct bias testing? Do we know how to? Natural language processing models like BERT which leverage transformers and which you have all used when you google has been found to be racist and sexist. Credit underwriting models using AI models, which are not well tuned, discriminate too. AI can be good in that it allows you to replace humans who do mundane repetitive tasks and, if well-tuned, it can be a force for good and increased productivity given its ability to scale up. But if we think that building a technology park on the island will bring AI, we are indeed living in Dodo Land. The Total Return Index, the SEMTRI, is an index, which tracks the price performances of the constituents of the SEMDEX and ensures that the dividends paid by these constituents are reinvested. (Stock Exchange of Mauritius) * Published in print edition on 11 September 2020
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 764871253953948 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/the-state-of-the-economy-2/
Was the whole BAI saga pre-planned and coldly executed and are there enduring financial costs to the country? By S. Callikan Let us spare some thought for the macro-economic situation any new incoming government and, in particular, its putative Minister of Finance and Economic Development will inherit in a few weeks or months from now. While the IMF representatives may have been perhaps extraordinarily quiescent about the real state of public sector and total debts and liabilities conveniently shelved in Special Purpose Vehicles, we suspect both the incoming Chancellor, and the population at large, will only find the real hard data after a thorough audit of all burdens and hidden liabilities saddled onto the camel’s back, ours that is. A state of the economy, including the situation at a special-reserve depleted Bank of Mauritius and government’s unrealized fire sale of national assets if any, is more than necessary, even if that may send some awkward but momentary shivers. We understand that total public debt and borrowings may have skyrocketed in absolute terms from some 220 billion to more than 350 billion rupees in less than five years. As these cannot have been used to fund recurrent expenditure or social benefits, the layman and the population at large must know what capital projects have contributed to such an abyss, if the biggest visible items are motorway road repairs and the unending saga of Bagatelle Dam and if the modest operational portion of the tramway has till now been entirely funded from the grant component of India. Foreign generosity in terms of grants from different sources, including India, China and the Saudi kingdom, have been used to the hilt and may be in very short supply in the near future when loan components and disbursements will start hitting the fan. Many affairs of considerable socio-economic magnitude have rocked the Alliance Lepep carriage since it took office, not least of which is the Bramer/BAI mega-scandal. Even if authorities had some legitimacy in requesting that the BAI Group or the Bank restructure its finances to be more in line with prudential practices, how did the henchmen intervene so brutally, without any credible judiciary process or oversight? Was the whole saga pre-planned and coldly executed and are there enduring financial costs to the country, over and above the shocking treatment meted out to a respected but non-legacy business leader and his family? Will there ever be light about the plight imposed on the business empire and the subsequent fire sale of its assets, under less than transparent conditions? Any state of the economy will also have to estimate what financial loads the authorities will have to bear to subsidize such mega projects as the Metro Express, the Cote d’Or Multisport Complex or the annual outlay of half a billion Rupees over twenty years for facial recognition and monitoring systems of MT-Huawei, over and above normal police budgets. No state of the economy would be complete without some assessment of the “zougader” (gambling) houses in every village. It would be amiss if it did not also evaluate the benefits of massive financial and fiscal generosities involved in colossal property development schemes since 2015, when the macro-economic growth rates have stubbornly and consistently stuck to their sputtering 3.8% levels. Virtually all our traditional mainstays of the economy look to be fragile, awaiting policy orientations or strategies, from sugarcane agriculture, textiles and local manufacturing, tourism and hostelry, to even the financial sector following the grace period post-DTAA renegotiation with India. New pillars have not been explored either, if the quasi-esoteric Artificial Intelligence of the EDB or the fabled air-corridor are excluded, that is. Beyond the temporary panacea of disparate short-term schemes or public employment, our youth face stark employment prospects and dismal opportunities for productive self-employment. The hurdles and the tasks facing a new incumbent will indeed be challenging for, somehow, beyond the acute despondency of unearthed realities, he and the new PM would need all their acumen and skills to weave a new story, one of reasoned hope, of shared ambitions and of achievable destinations in a more turbulent world. * * * Impact of Thomas Cook (UK) collapse When Thomas Cook (UK), one of the travelling world’s biggest brand names, files for bankruptcy, with dozens of subsidiaries in European countries, with tourist packages across 60 destinations, with a major stake (49%) in an established airline company like Condor, with dozens of thousands of employees, the repercussions are bound to be worldwide. The plight of 600,000 (150,000 from the UK) stranded holiday-makers, stuck in such diverse places as Goa, Crete, Turkey and Spain, have been on air and in the media over the past two weeks. The UK authorities with the help of local partners, ex-Thomas Cook staff working for free and airlines, have acted with commendable celerity to ensure what has been dubbed the UK’s largest peacetime repatriation exercise in history. With the compulsory liquidation process adopted, it seems clear that around 21,000 worldwide employees, including 9,000 UK staff, are being left without jobs, with such unfolding personal dramas piling on to the Brexit conundrum and PM Boris Johnson’s woes on many fronts. Several affiliates, partners or wholly-owned outfits of Thomas Cook UK, are under pressure, some having filed for insolvency while others may soon be forced to do so. Thomas Cook (Germany), for instance, a major subsidiary of TC (UK), has announced it is filing for insolvency in an attempt to save its national brands after the collapse of the UK parent company. The German government through the UE has rapidly extended bridging finance of some 400m$ to Condor in an attempt to keep the airline company afloat while they are considering similar bridging finance for TC (Germany) which itself owns several reputable travel & tourism brands. Many hundreds of hotels and travel-related businesses across Europe have depended on TC (UK) tour-operator, packager and airline activities. As at present, it seems that Spain & Baleares, Greece and Turkey, all of whose hotels, air-traffic and tourist numbers depended relatively heavily on the TC turnover from UK and European subsidiaries, may be the worst hit. Thomas Cook in China, Scandinavia, India (of which the Mauritius branch is an affiliate) have been spared the worst being substantially autonomous in their organisation structures and operations. Thomas Cook (Mtius) has been quick to inform and reassure its customers that the sad demise of TC (UK) does not affect its own operations. Nevertheless, more generally in the hospitality and tourism-related sector, there have been significant reverberations already as the planetary shock-wave hit our shores. Although data on TC-specific travellers and holiday-makers is hard to come by and key players (hoteliers, AHRIM, MTPA, airlines, tour-ops) have been relatively discrete, as would be expected, in their public pronouncements, we can at least surmise the following two areas of concern. Many hoteliers, and in particular those depending on TC (UK) & Europe for significant volumes, will have been hit by a double whammy: loss of revenue from TC customers who stayed and have left since as far back as July 2019, with minimal prospects of recovering any of that foregone revenue; secondly, the cancellations of TC-travellers for the high season from October through December and even during early next year. Not all those TC cancellations will be recouped from alternative operators. Financial losses and lowered occupancy rates in the coming months are not the sort of prospects our hotel and related industries needed right now with the ongoing Brexit uncertainties looming high in tourist calculations. Neither did our authorities need another wake-up call that the industry has not been in a buoyant mood, with little that could be called concerted and pro-active planning of a somewhat overdue rejuvenation of policies, offerings and brands. Our national flag carrier may feel some pinch over any decrease in passenger flights due to TC disruptions. Although other carriers like Turkish or Emirates or Condor may share the probable reduced passenger flows, our carrier will not have ignored the potential impact on its operations during the festive season. Not the sort of prospect that Air Mauritius (MK) needed when it is still feeling the financial weight of new airplane purchases and internal management issues. We cannot but feel that the authorities imbued with pro-activity and a sense of concern would have already conducted some high-level stakeholder consultations to evaluate and implement any coordinated strategy or at least a set of effective counter-measures, both for the national carrier MK and the hotel, travel and tourism sector during this uneasy and perhaps difficult patch for some. Despite the urgency, somehow we doubt that either the Economic Development Board, Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority, Association des Hôteliers et Restaurateurs de l’île Maurice, MK or the parent Ministries are equipped or mandated to have taken the lead in this politically sensitive period. If inaction is due to a suspected abeyance to pre-electoral political spin and messaging, it would be unfortunate. * Published in print edition on 4 October 2019
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 762245634216510 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/the-state-of-the-economy/
Was the whole BAI saga pre-planned and coldly executed and are there enduring financial costs to the country? By S. Callikan Let us spare some thought for the macro-economic situation any new incoming government and, in particular, its putative Minister of Finance and Economic Development will inherit in a few weeks or months from now. While the IMF representatives may have been perhaps extraordinarily quiescent about the real state of public sector and total debts and liabilities conveniently shelved in Special Purpose Vehicles, we suspect both the incoming Chancellor, and the population at large, will only find the real hard data after a thorough audit of all burdens and hidden liabilities saddled onto the camel’s back, ours that is. A state of the economy, including the situation at a special-reserve depleted Bank of Mauritius and government’s unrealized fire sale of national assets if any, is more than necessary, even if that may send some awkward but momentary shivers. We understand that total public debt and borrowings may have skyrocketed in absolute terms from some 220 billion to more than 350 billion rupees in less than five years. As these cannot have been used to fund recurrent expenditure or social benefits, the layman and the population at large must know what capital projects have contributed to such an abyss, if the biggest visible items are motorway road repairs and the unending saga of Bagatelle Dam and if the modest operational portion of the tramway has till now been entirely funded from the grant component of India. Foreign generosity in terms of grants from different sources, including India, China and the Saudi kingdom, have been used to the hilt and may be in very short supply in the near future when loan components and disbursements will start hitting the fan. Many affairs of considerable socio-economic magnitude have rocked the Alliance Lepep carriage since it took office, not least of which is the Bramer/BAI mega-scandal. Even if authorities had some legitimacy in requesting that the BAI Group or the Bank restructure its finances to be more in line with prudential practices, how did the henchmen intervene so brutally, without any credible judiciary process or oversight? Was the whole saga pre-planned and coldly executed and are there enduring financial costs to the country, over and above the shocking treatment meted out to a respected but non-legacy business leader and his family? Will there ever be light about the plight imposed on the business empire and the subsequent fire sale of its assets, under less than transparent conditions? Any state of the economy will also have to estimate what financial loads the authorities will have to bear to subsidize such mega projects as the Metro Express, the Cote d’Or Multisport Complex or the annual outlay of half a billion Rupees over twenty years for facial recognition and monitoring systems of MT-Huawei, over and above normal police budgets. No state of the economy would be complete without some assessment of the “zougader” (gambling) houses in every village. It would be amiss if it did not also evaluate the benefits of massive financial and fiscal generosities involved in colossal property development schemes since 2015, when the macro-economic growth rates have stubbornly and consistently stuck to their sputtering 3.8% levels. Virtually all our traditional mainstays of the economy look to be fragile, awaiting policy orientations or strategies, from sugarcane agriculture, textiles and local manufacturing, tourism and hostelry, to even the financial sector following the grace period post-DTAA renegotiation with India. New pillars have not been explored either, if the quasi-esoteric Artificial Intelligence of the EDB or the fabled air-corridor are excluded, that is. Beyond the temporary panacea of disparate short-term schemes or public employment, our youth face stark employment prospects and dismal opportunities for productive self-employment. The hurdles and the tasks facing a new incumbent will indeed be challenging for, somehow, beyond the acute despondency of unearthed realities, he and the new PM would need all their acumen and skills to weave a new story, one of reasoned hope, of shared ambitions and of achievable destinations in a more turbulent world. * * * Impact of Thomas Cook (UK) collapse When Thomas Cook (UK), one of the travelling world’s biggest brand names, files for bankruptcy, with dozens of subsidiaries in European countries, with tourist packages across 60 destinations, with a major stake (49%) in an established airline company like Condor, with dozens of thousands of employees, the repercussions are bound to be worldwide. The plight of 600,000 (150,000 from the UK) stranded holiday-makers, stuck in such diverse places as Goa, Crete, Turkey and Spain, have been on air and in the media over the past two weeks. The UK authorities with the help of local partners, ex-Thomas Cook staff working for free and airlines, have acted with commendable celerity to ensure what has been dubbed the UK’s largest peacetime repatriation exercise in history. With the compulsory liquidation process adopted, it seems clear that around 21,000 worldwide employees, including 9,000 UK staff, are being left without jobs, with such unfolding personal dramas piling on to the Brexit conundrum and PM Boris Johnson’s woes on many fronts. Several affiliates, partners or wholly-owned outfits of Thomas Cook UK, are under pressure, some having filed for insolvency while others may soon be forced to do so. Thomas Cook (Germany), for instance, a major subsidiary of TC (UK), has announced it is filing for insolvency in an attempt to save its national brands after the collapse of the UK parent company. The German government through the UE has rapidly extended bridging finance of some 400m$ to Condor in an attempt to keep the airline company afloat while they are considering similar bridging finance for TC (Germany) which itself owns several reputable travel & tourism brands. Many hundreds of hotels and travel-related businesses across Europe have depended on TC (UK) tour-operator, packager and airline activities. As at present, it seems that Spain & Baleares, Greece and Turkey, all of whose hotels, air-traffic and tourist numbers depended relatively heavily on the TC turnover from UK and European subsidiaries, may be the worst hit. Thomas Cook in China, Scandinavia, India (of which the Mauritius branch is an affiliate) have been spared the worst being substantially autonomous in their organisation structures and operations. Thomas Cook (Mtius) has been quick to inform and reassure its customers that the sad demise of TC (UK) does not affect its own operations. Nevertheless, more generally in the hospitality and tourism-related sector, there have been significant reverberations already as the planetary shock-wave hit our shores. Although data on TC-specific travellers and holiday-makers is hard to come by and key players (hoteliers, AHRIM, MTPA, airlines, tour-ops) have been relatively discrete, as would be expected, in their public pronouncements, we can at least surmise the following two areas of concern. Many hoteliers, and in particular those depending on TC (UK) & Europe for significant volumes, will have been hit by a double whammy: loss of revenue from TC customers who stayed and have left since as far back as July 2019, with minimal prospects of recovering any of that foregone revenue; secondly, the cancellations of TC-travellers for the high season from October through December and even during early next year. Not all those TC cancellations will be recouped from alternative operators. Financial losses and lowered occupancy rates in the coming months are not the sort of prospects our hotel and related industries needed right now with the ongoing Brexit uncertainties looming high in tourist calculations. Neither did our authorities need another wake-up call that the industry has not been in a buoyant mood, with little that could be called concerted and pro-active planning of a somewhat overdue rejuvenation of policies, offerings and brands. Our national flag carrier may feel some pinch over any decrease in passenger flights due to TC disruptions. Although other carriers like Turkish or Emirates or Condor may share the probable reduced passenger flows, our carrier will not have ignored the potential impact on its operations during the festive season. Not the sort of prospect that Air Mauritius (MK) needed when it is still feeling the financial weight of new airplane purchases and internal management issues. We cannot but feel that the authorities imbued with pro-activity and a sense of concern would have already conducted some high-level stakeholder consultations to evaluate and implement any coordinated strategy or at least a set of effective counter-measures, both for the national carrier MK and the hotel, travel and tourism sector during this uneasy and perhaps difficult patch for some. Despite the urgency, somehow we doubt that either the Economic Development Board, Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority, Association des Hôteliers et Restaurateurs de l’île Maurice, MK or the parent Ministries are equipped or mandated to have taken the lead in this politically sensitive period. If inaction is due to a suspected abeyance to pre-electoral political spin and messaging, it would be unfortunate. * Published in print edition on 4 October 2019
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 745970662510674 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/education-tertiaire-gratis-conning-people/
Political Caricatures By L.E. Pep Government has decided to introduce free tertiary education in public tertiary education institutions (TEIs) for both full-time and part-time courses leading to a certificate, diploma or degree. This was not a planned decision based on well-thought analysis but was hastily put together, a populist move in view of the forthcoming general elections. Now the posters (financed by taxpayers’ money?) are on display: “Education tertiaire gratis; aster nu tu capav”. Really? Isn’t just conning people? First, there is no such thing as free tertiary education; someone must always pay for it. We, taxpayers, are having to pay for it. Second, it was not listed in the manifesto of the Lepep alliance, which means that the electorate did not vote for it. This measure will mainly, as in most developing countries, benefit middle- and high-income students who can pay their way to tertiary institutions, unlike those from low-income families. Thus free tertiary education is in effect a transfer of resources from lower- to middle- and higher-income individuals within the national population. Third, it is not a priority now when most of the graduates are likely to join the ranks of the unemployed. The priority for the moment is to devote higher public spending to tackle basic skills shortages and create more jobs for the young. With the exception of year 2011, employment creation in 2018 was one of the worst since 1991. Between 2014-2018, this government has created on a net basis only 5,400 jobs whereas the previous one had created 25,000 jobs over the period 2011-2015. The present government has also failed to tackle youth unemployment, which has remained as high as 25%. And last but not least, we’ll soon come to realise that Government cannot meet the increasing demands of higher education for funds for new infrastructure, new technologies, the upgrading of the teaching faculty, new curriculum and courses, and research. We cannot have high quality education solely relying on the public purse. Populism, or electoral bribes, without a proper assessment of the consequences, usually come with an expensive price tag. Winning over the electorate is one thing, but that should not be at any cost, for it will then amount to “une politique de terre brûlée”. * * * “Insane News”: The gutter press of the regime Bloggers have named it the “Insane News” because of the vile propaganda it spits out as “news”. Last week it stooped so low as to qualify one of our respected colleagues, H.C, who has gone through a tough time fighting against a severe disease, as “mort-vivant”. It seems to have taken malicious pleasure in writing: “En tout cas, sachez, cher monsieur, que ce n’est pas dans nos habitudes de faire du tort à quiconque surtout encore moins à un mort-vivant… Vous comprendrez sans doute où nous voulons en venir!” Irate bloggers are outraged at such a nauseating attack, which is unacceptable by the norms and ethics of the common press; they are calling upon the Media Trust and other newspapers to condemn such a coward, shameful and immoral abomination towards a fellow respected journalist. This well-orchestrated and targeted campaign is also aimed at Paul Lismore, a friend of H.C, an anonymous blogger who has been hitting hard at the present regime. “Insane News” is trying to figure out the identity of the person going by the name of Lismore, this with a view to hitting at him in the same way that they did to Shameem Korimbocus who was deported from Dubai. This seems to have incensed Paul Lismore, who has hit back more fiercely in these terms: “We have never reached this terrible level of corruption, nepotism, asking for favours and getting them, the mentality of “my shit smells nice compared to yours”, this incredibly selfish mercenary attitude that afflicts so many and compels them to do the most shameful activities imaginable… for the brand new car/villa/air tickets/mission bidon, etc., to be obtained free of charge, and for any contract to be awarded in dark rooms. I am afraid that keeping quiet when dangerous idiots are allowed to destroy what still remains civilised in our society makes you a collaborator of the vermins…” * * * NSS agents monitored by drones In the wake of the incident last Wednesday involving a relative of the owner of Pakistan Hotel, Plaine-Verte, and an agent of the National Security Service (NSS), local inhabitants allege that they have noticed several elements of the NSS monitoring the residence of former Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam at Desforges Street. Another interesting development to this story is that regulars in the Plaine Verte region would have seen drones in the vicinity monitoring the agents fielded by the NSS to keep watch over the former PM’s activities. It is for this reason, it is argued, that the NSS would have opted for a rotation of its agents placed on this area, even sending young recruits from the police to stand guard. And you would want us to believe that we are safe with the Safe City project! It is like having the NSS posted at every street corner, notebook in hand. One should not be surprised if it comes down to having Huawei Technologies technicians helping the government to spy on its political opponents by using cell data to track their whereabouts – just like it’s happening in some African countries with the help of Huawei Technologies security tools. * * * FCM: What’s Father Grégoire’s game? After a period of hibernation of the Federation of Mauritian Creoles (FCM), Father Jocelyn Grégoire has returned to the front stage with the organization of a rally, last Sunday at the Octave Wiehe Auditorium, with its rallying cry being “Ler nou la viktwar ape sone”. On the invitation poster, which carries a picture of Father Grégoire, we can read: “Vini ek to fami ek to vwazin, vini pou lavenir to zanfan ek tizanfan”. The “move” of Father Grégoire has once again raised many questions and comments both within the political parties and in the population, and particularly among Catholics because of his status as a priest. Several people are apprehensive about the nature and purpose of that rally given Jocelyn Grégoire’s previous carefully orchestrated interventions which hinted at specific voting directives in past election campaigns. There is not much, they say, that demarcates FCM from other sectarian socio-cultural groups fighting that their “nou-bannes” get a bigger share of the national cake. Those who revolve around the FCM and its president have been disturbed by the Father cosying up to the present regime and the Prime Minister in particular, and it appears they will take it pretty badly should Mr Grégoire issue an unequivocal voting directive in favour of the government. But the consultations with his public seem to have convinced him that there is a huge silent majority which feels that, like with other regimes, they have been mere bystanders for the past five years, bypassed on many of the so-called pro-poor measures taken by the government. Mr Grégoire has been wise enough not to voice out any political support or issue any political directive this time round. * * * The NRA confirms the findings of the Mutual Evaluation of Report of ESAAMLG The National Money Laundering & Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment of Mauritius, released recently, shows that that the general level of money laundering threats is considered medium-high. Domestically, the National Risk Assessment findings show that the main proceeds-generating crimes in Mauritius are drug trafficking, fraud, illegal bookmaking, high value larcenies, tax crimes and corruption. The external threat mainly emanates from proceeds of crime derived from fraud (including tax fraud) and corruption committed outside of Mauritius. In most detected money laundering cases, funds are moved through the financial services sector in Mauritius as a transit destination either by the criminals themselves or through the use of professional money launderers. The professional money launderers can be foreign- or locally based. The overall national ML vulnerability rating is Medium-High. This rating is influenced by an overall national combating ability which is rated Medium-Low, mostly as a result of the absence of formal risk-based Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) policies, as well as other shortcomings. Key weaknesses in the ability of the national authorities to combat money laundering include lack of resources of authorities in charge of investigating these offences and asset recovery, the absence of a national strategy and insufficient national coordination/cooperation. The prosecution of such cases faces considerable delay due to the number of pending cases. In this report, the Minister of Financial Services acknowledges that the National Risk Assessment exercise has benefited from the findings of the Mutual Evaluation Report (MER) of the Eastern and Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG). You will recall that the key finding of the MER is that the AML/CFT regime of Mauritius “has not kept pace with the evolving global AML/CFT environment and therefore it has several weaknesses that negatively affect its effectiveness”. Mauritius’s legislation had not been aligned to the Financial Action Task Force’s AML/CFT standards and we have fallen behind in the global endeavour to clean up financial systems worldwide. Despite the recent legislative amendments, we still have some doubts about whether the discredited ICAC, an FIU without direction, a dispirited police and a diminished Asset Recovery Unit will be able to perform efficiently and deliver effectively on their mandate to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. * * * A Labour-MMM alliance that is palatable to voters If they want to avoid another drubbing or a downright rejection in the next elections, they will have to demonstrate that they have a strategy or a narrative that goes beyond the ambition of their respective party leaders – Navin Ramgoolam and Paul Berenger. We hear that some voices within and outside these two parties are advocating for a new leadership — “that will be the real politics of ‘rupture’ – that is by really doing politics differently and projecting an alternative ideological narrative to an MSM still anchored in dynastic politics, cronyism, and turncoats…” Indeed such a coalition, they believe, will be unstoppable and unbeatable if the two leaders opt to be Mentor Ministers in a government led by “one of the popular war horses (Anil Baichoo or Arvin Boolell or Kailash Prayag…) as PM for the first three years, and an MMM frontliner (Arianne Navarre-Marie or Rajesh Bhagwan…) for the following two years”. They add that “70% of the candidates from both parties should be new faces or young Turks, who though novice in politics should possess the right kind of talent in terms of experience and expertise to be given the opportunity of assuming eventually the mantle of leadership. “They will be supported by a team of old guards as advisers, experts in their own fields, irrespective of their political affiliation, which will be made public as part of the whole package being offered to voters. Can the two historical leaders come down from their pedestals and the altar of their ego, sacrificing their leadership, to help turn around the country that is heading towards a grave economic abyss, a bankruptcy of ideas and a failure to provide an alternative vision for the next five years. If such an alliance gets traction, it could derail the plans of MSM and its newly acquired and potential bands of turncoats. It will also highlight the two parties’ capacity to shed the dynastic politics taint, to effect a transition from the old to the new and to dismantle the hegemony of a coterie of the old guard that has used its loyalty to the leaders to stay politically relevant.” Affaire à suivre. * * * 500 bus industry workers may lose their jobs Bus industry workers are worried. About 500 employees in this sector are likely to lose their jobs with the coming into operation of the Metro Express, according to the president of the United Bus Service Employees Union Sheik Abbass. According to the trade unionist, the introduction of a cashless ticketless system in feeder buses is another source of concern for ticket collectors who will find themselves out of jobs. The Union Joint Panel, which brings together the United Bus Service Employees Union, the Workers Transport Bus Association, the Bus Industry Traffic Officers Union and the Bus Industry Staff Association, have requested for an urgent meeting with the Minister of Transport. The news releases in the media to reassure the workers about their fate are not enough. The unions say they want a formal commitment and a written guarantee from the Minister of Public Infrastructure and Transport, Nando Bodha, that there will be no job losses. Employees of Triolet Bus Service, Rose Hill Transport, United Bus Service and other bus companies will be voting to decide whether to go on strike over the expected job losses within the industry with the operation of the Metro Express. Since the beginning of the Metro Express project, Government has been pretty secretive about it, whether it has to do with the EIA licence, the felling of trees, and now the possibility of job losses. It isn’t surprising then that the bus industry workers and their unions are insisting for formal guarantees from the Minister. * * * Doctors go to court to decide on their strike This announced strike of General Practitioners was to be held on September 11 to challenge the rotation system introduced in 2016 forcing them to work 40 hours a week, without any additional remuneration, instead of 33 hours as was the case previously. The new rotation system was implemented without consultation with the union. Faced with the Ministry’s refusal to review its position and meet the doctors’ representatives to discuss the new system, the union decided to call a strike. As more than 90% of doctors have come out in support with this union’s action, the MHOA has insisted on having a recourse to a referendum as required by law. The general practitioners deplore the attitude of the Ministry of Labour. It was expected that a secret ballot would be held on 4 and 5 September to allow doctors from the five national hospitals to decide on a litigation strike over the 33-hour week. However, the Ministry of Labour informed them on Friday, August 30, that it will not send an official to oversee the voting.But for the MHOA, this seemed to be more of a delaying tactic on the part of the ministry. Their union, the Medical and Health Officers Association, has filed an injunction in court on Monday, September 2, following the Ministry of Labor’s refusal to organize the voting exercise as required by law. Wasn’t it supposed to be a pro-worker regime? Go and ask the turncoats! * * * Trees v/s Infrastructure 6,522 trees have been cut down in the last 48 months to make room for ongoing infrastructure development projects. After the feeling of trees at Roland Armand Drive at Vandermeersch Street, Rose Hill, to make room for the Metro Express and the Saint François bypass at Anse-la-Raie, the environmental disaster continues. This time, it is the turn of the Sivananda Road in Curepipe, which is undergoing the same fate. This slaughter of trees for the benefit of infrastructural projects has unleashed a feeling of revolt among environmentalists, who are sounding the alarm on its harmful impact on our environment. Yvan Luckhun, ecologist, says: “A day of raising awareness about the environment is not enough to protect the environment. Instead, we need to tackle the source of the problem. They are removing old trees that have greatly contributed to the ecology of our island on the pretext that they are going to replant new trees, but it is important to realize that this will not have the same effect as these trees take time to mature and function as a link in the ecosystem.” He explains that there are several factors that authorities must consider before felling a tree. According to him, it is necessary to seek the opinion of an expert and carefully re-examine the reasons that a tree needs to be cut down. In many parts of the world people are forming a human chain to protest against the cutting of trees and the authorities have ceded to these concerns by diverting the metro rail tracks to avoid the felling of trees. If only our authorities had shown such concern for our environment, we would have preserved such invaluable eco-friendly, nature-friendly sites like Roland Armand and Sivananda Road. Quote: Ram Seegobin in ‘Week-End’ “Many Mauritians are furious at the fact that they are forced to watch the inauguration and ribbon-cutting ceremonies of Pravind Jugnauth along with his speeches on MBC TV…” * Published in print edition on 6 September 2019
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 688194381621636 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/poor-governance-on-trial/
By Mrinal Roy The Supreme Court ruling in the Betamax case has triggered a holier-than-thou political blame game among the main political parties when they are all (Labour, PMSD and MSM as well as the MMM), to varying degrees, guilty of not steadfastly safeguarding the public interest The Supreme Court judgement quashing the Rs 4.5 billion award in the long drawn Betamax affair yet again brings to light the appalling state of governance in the country under successive governments. Just as in the case of the Medpoint affair, the lucrative 15 year Betamax contract involved the commitment of substantial amounts of public funds in decried deals with close relations of those in power in the teeth of public interest. Both the Betamax and the MedPoint cases as well as other contentious lawsuits have drawn government into lengthy and costly litigations not only in local courts but also in courts overseas at the cost of the Public Exchequer. The Betamax case is not only being presently examined by the Delhi High Court but is also expected to be brought by the respondent to the UK Privy Council for their learned legal guidance. The Supreme Court ruling has triggered a holier-than-thou political blame game among the main political parties when they are all, to varying degrees, guilty of not unswervingly and steadfastly safeguarding the public interest. In fact, although the Betamax deal was contracted in 2009 by the Labour-PMXD and others in the Alliance Sociale government, it was not only maintained and defended by the MSM as a partner of the Labour-PMSD-MSM alliance government from 2010 to August 2011 but it was also basically swept under the carpet for reasons of political expediency by the MMM when it contracted the ill-fated power sharing alliance with the Labour Party to contest the 2014 general elections. It is only in February 2015 that the leonine Betamax contract was rescinded by the L’Alliance Lepep government. The office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has in the wake of the Supreme Court judgement advised that the Commissioner of Police may carry out further investigation to determine whether offences may have been committed under the Public Procurement Act (PPA) in the case of the freighting contract awarded to Betamax. Patently disadvantageous deal The Betamax case basically exposes so many things which are fundamentally amiss and wrong in the country. A government is expected to judiciously manage and be a rigorous custodian of public funds as well as be a robust bulwark of public interest. Its mandate is to safeguard the interests of the country in all circumstances. Governments that obviously do not fathom commercial technicalities and those without seasoned commercial credentials cannot be allowed to negotiate on behalf of Mauritius. Instead of robustly protecting the interests of the country, the patently disadvantageous terms of the Betamax deal negotiated by those responsible do the exact opposite. The commercial terms negotiated basically provide a risk-free guaranteed payment spanning 15 years to Betamax with predetermined annual increases of the freight rate over the period and the irrevocable and unconditional guarantee of the State of Mauritius to ‘promptly pay any sum of money which State Trading Corporation (STC) has failed to pay to Betamax’ in accordance with the terms of the contract. In what way do such questionable terms safeguard the interests of the country? These disputed terms skewed in favour of Betamax reminds the country of similar leonine terms in the Independent Power Producers (IPP) contracts which indexed the electricity price on fuel oil and coal costs as well as currency and economic indices. Mauritius must ensure that public interest is no longer shortchanged and public funds so abjectly despoiled, bearing in mind that climate change imperatives require an end to the use of coal to produce electricity. In its judgment, the Supreme Court thus concludes that ‘the enforcement of an illegal contract of such magnitude, in flagrant and concrete breach of public procurement legislation enacted to secure the protection of good governance of public funds, would violate the fundamental legal order of Mauritius.’ The State Trading Corporation was bound as a public body to act in conformity with the Public Procurement Act (PPA). How could a lucrative contract of such magnitude and committing such colossal amounts of public funds have been concluded without adhering strictly with the provisions of the PPA and the process of a transparent tender procedure? The Supreme Court therefore ruled that it has ‘no difficulty in holding that the public policy of Mauritius prohibits the recognition or enforcement of an award giving effect to such an illegal contract which shakes the very foundations of the public financial structure and administration of Mauritius in a manner which unquestionably violates the fundamental legal order of Mauritius.’ Scathing indictment The Betamax case is therefore a scathing indictment of governance in the country. Governments and those in power must unconditionally abide by legislations that have been enacted to ensure good governance and absolute transparency in the utilization of public funds. The damning annual audit report issued by the National Audit Office each year exposes and criticizes the many unchecked shortcomings in the utilization and management of public funds in the country. For too long, successive governments have through political interference, the appointment of cohorts of political appointees and nepotism undermined the management acumen and efficiency of the government Establishment and public institutions or companies where government is a major shareholder such as Air Mauritius or the State Commercial Bank, etc. Such an appalling system of governance has spawned systemic blunders like hedging and operational losses or risky exposure on loans requiring considerable impairment provisions or substantial cost overruns on infrastructural projects such as the Midlands dam or the Cote d’Or multisport complex. The contested and costly Safe City project valued at some Rs 16 billion is being implemented in patent opacity with Huawei technology which is banned in the United States, without public oversight. A more rigorous oversight This deplorable state of governance in the country cannot go on. It also raises fundamental questions of accountability of all those involved in cases where public funds are wantonly squandered. However, what is of vital importance is to urgently restore the competence of the government Establishment, public institutions and companies by merit based appointments. It is equally important to urgently put in place a robust system of checks and balances which rigorously assure in-house verification and validation of all decisions by government and all government bodies. The government Establishment must once again become a hub of competence, independence and sound counsel to government to promote and arbitrate public interest and act as a solid bulwark against the decried excesses of poor governance. No democratic country can tom-tom about good and exemplary governance if existing legislations and rules are repeatedly circumvented through political high-handedness or where opacity of governments decisions holds sway. Similarly, the standard of political ethics must adhere to and uncompromisingly uphold absolute principles of propriety and probity instead of perpetually cutting corners and pandering to decried considerations of political expediency. This is therefore not the time for a futile political blame game but for the people and the country at large to draw lessons from the costly Betamax, Medpoint, IPPs and other contentious affairs and demand that the government and the political class urgently take the remedial steps necessary and build in the required checks and balances to ensure absolute transparency and accountability of the government decision making process at all levels and the rigorous management of public funds so as to shepherd and rigorously assure good governance in the country at all times. * Published in print edition on 7 June 2019
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 599583503816058 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/shanty-dwellings-opposite-posh-res/
Political Caricatures By L.E. Pep No, we are not referring to some Asian or Latin American country, it is here in Mauritius. It has been highlighted that in the Black River region, at a place better known as Carré d’As we have some squatters on private land — about 46 families or 150 people. Facing these squatters is a high-flying RES’s residential units under construction – another gated community with all its luxuries! The Carré d’As families live in a precarious situation: dilapidated ramshackle houses, cooking on the floor for some, promiscuity, water supply problem, one toilet and bathroom for several families. In addition, they have to queue up for water collection every morning. That’s the achievements that this Government is talking about. If they want to do something, as suggested by one of the participants at a recent talk on human rights, use the Land (Compulsory) Acquisition Act, a law which entitles the authorities to buy private land for social housing projects. That will be an achievement! * * * Cottage: Drains are not a priority! The inhabitants of Cottage took to the streets to make their voices heard on last Tuesday morning, December 11th. They had come together to protest against the inactivity of the authorities. The reason: the floods that occurred after the heavy downpour had caused a lot of damage. They lost almost everything during the rising waters: furniture, food, appliances and even vehicles. Retired persons, children and other adults were seen shouting their anger on the streets. According to them, the absence of proper drains to channel the water pouring down from adjoining villages was responsible for the flood in Cottage. These however do not appear to constitute the priorities of this government – thus the non-implementation of projects that have a bearing on the daily living of the small people. They are more concerned with prestige projects – the Metro Express, the Sports Complex at Cote d’Or, Smart Cities, the Anse la Raie by-pass… — all of which will supposedly change the lives of people. There are indeed urgent short-term priorities which should be tackled immediately including the consolidation of policies to boost inclusive growth. They have now allocated Rs 70 m for drains at Cottage. Après la mort, la tisane… as usual. Construction of drains should be a priority! * * * Declaration of Assets Bill: Room for improvement The latest Declaration of Assets Bill (No. XXIII of 2018) was passed without amendment in the National Assembly on December 12. The elected members of Mauritius and Rodrigues will have to declare their assets at the beginning and at the end of their mandate. City and district councillors are also concerned, as well as members of the judiciary, the Speaker and senior officials (public officer of the grade of, or drawing salary at the level of, Deputy Permanent Secretary and above). However, the data will not be accessible to the general public. The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) will reveal only part of the information in its possession. Why ICAC, which presently suffers from a “credibility gap”? Why are the declarations of assets and liabilities not made accessible to the public? Many are of the opinion that the bill is not sufficiently restrictive. For greater transparency and with a view to ending impunity, the opposition calls for the establishment of a verification mechanism for the information disclosed by the persons concerned and for stiffer penalties, in terms of sentences and fines, for those who make false declarations regarding their assets. * * * The multi-billion Safe City project: Huawei Again! This time even Orange is reviewing its Huawei ties. Indeed, doors are slamming shut for Huawei around the world. The Chinese multinational telecommunications equipment and consumer electronics company is coming under pressure in two more key European markets — the latest in a series of problems the Chinese company is facing around the world. Telecommunications firm Orange has ruled out the use of Huawei components in its core 5G network in France, and Germany’s Deutsche Telekom says it is reviewing purchases of Huawei equipment. Our local media is also putting pressure on Government on this multi-billion Safe City project. “There are many issues connected with this project being implemented “à la va vite”! What is the urgency? Why is the entire project shrouded in secrecy? How was Huawei chosen and who signed it? The people want an answer from the Chairman and the CEO of Mauritius Telecom, a prominent member of ‘La Cuisine’ who is said to be one of the main proponents of this project? * * * Lepep Government: Le bilan 4 years on Some negative comments noted on social media: “The party continues. Kleptocracy is at its peak. After Rs 19 m for Trilochun, Rs 15 m pour Dayal, Rs 48 m for Soodhun, Rs 25 m for Husnoo and now MP Sorefan hits the jackpot with Rs 16 m!” For the spokesperson of Lalit, “what we have been witnessing is the transformation of the state apparatus into a Jugnauth state”. Others have this to say: “They are not developing certain sectors, …the outcome and the future impacts on our economy will be very severe and some Mauritians (if not all) will be greatly penalised. The minimum wage and the negative tax will not be enough to meet the rising cost of living that we will face shortly. (Already 77% of Mauritians have problems in settling their regular bills.) Be prepared to see everything increase and the number of poor citizens rise.” Economist Ganessen Chinnapen is of the opinion that the Lepep government has not come up with coherent policy measures for new sources of growth to propel the economy to a higher plateau of growth and a more diversified and resilient economy. Some more positive ones: “Whether the glass is half full or half empty is a matter of perception. The fact is that there hasn’t been any shortage of people that want this government to fail. As to the performance of this government, I’ll reserve my judgement till the end of its mandate.” * * * The Financial Services Sector: Piètre bilan First you had the blatantly amateurish way they dealt with the BAI affair – much like a bull in a china shop, and we are still bearing the huge costs of this mismanagement and failed salvage operations. Then our financial centre was involved or named in a series of financial scams from Beaufort Securities to the alleged $2bn fraud of the Punjab National Bank and the jeweller Nirav Modi, to Ireo, one of India’s biggest property developers, one of Donald Trump’s business partners in India and then there were Alvaro Sobrinho and Jean-Claude Bastos de Morais of Quantum Global. We also saw Mauritius classified as a high-risk jurisdiction by some global banks, namely Deutsche Bank, Citi, Standard Chartered and JP Morgan. Mauritius was one among the 25 countries in the list of high risk jurisdictions compiled by these global banks in India. It was followed by the damning Eastern and Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG) Mutual Evaluation Report for Mauritius which prompted the authorities to come forward with appropriate amendments and legislations. And despite all the conferences and similar shows, the international interactions and the assurances of a transformation to Fintech and Innovation-Driven Financial Services, we are not reassured. There are still many gaps to be filled for a meaningful blueprint. * * * BOM: Losses of Rs 587 millions Many of the criticisms directed against the Bank of Mauritius (BOM) as regards the perceived level of incompetence and mismanagement may not hold. However the BOM should increase its expertise in reserve management to ensure that its return on the reserves could at least compensate the cost of monetary policy and the overgenerous salaries of the Governor and his Deputies. On the question of foreign reserves, we seem to have exceeded the conventional benchmarks for reserve adequacy. One reason in the first place for the excess foreign reserve accumulation is BOM’s attempts to limit exchange rate fluctuations or to prevent the exchange rate from appreciating. Another reason is the lack of expertise at the Bank to manage the large capital inflows. In thin and illiquid local markets, open market operations are often not only costly but also ineffective. Further haemorrhaging of its balance sheet may not be a big deal but it may continue to give the impression that the required competence to take corrective actions is lacking at the BOM. * * * Landscope Mauritius: Des zones d’ombre It has been two years since Landscope Mauritius came into operation. The activities of this company, comprising the following entities – State Property Development Company Ltd (SPDC), Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd (BPML), State Land Development Company (SLDC), Belle Mare Tourist Village Ltd, Le Val Development Ltd and Les Pailles Conference Centre Ltd – range from land management to the construction of Smart Cities and the development of recreational parks. Profits to the tune of Rs 43.5 million are being realized for the financial year 2018. The opposition has a totally different view of this company which they consider to lack transparency and accountability, especially on the awarding of contracts and the recruitment of employees. They argue that the answers to their half a dozen questions in Parliament do portray the company as inefficient due to its inability to concretize the many projects that they have earlier announced, namely the Belle Mare Tourist Village, the Côte-d’Or Smart City and the Rose Belle Business Park, despite the hefty monthly pay packets of Rs 211,000 for the top team, who supposedly have the skills to see the projects to fruition and attain outcomes effectively and efficiently. * * * House adjourned to 26 march 2019 Our MPs are having some long holidays. They have had the nerve to pretend that they deserve a long break after the hard labour of the past months. Really? To us it seems they are being paid mostly to sleep, to show their tongue and other instruments, to walk out when they should not and not to walk out when they should, to challenge their opponents to ugly spats of “tombe dehors” when they are short of arguments, to create all kinds of pea-brained reasonings and ‘zizanies’, instead of trying to convince through facts and arguments or to come up with botched-up bills or bills that have to be withdrawn. One of the smart-alecs trying an amalgam of politics and football pointed to the dwindling Manchester United team making him think of some of our MPs, especially the Ministers – Big salary, many advisers, lot of stunts… but poor performance. LoL. * * * Tourism sector: Still lagging behind! The number of tourist arrivals for the first nine months of 2018 increased by 4.3% from 934,679 for the corresponding period in 2017 to reach 975,066. The forecast of tourist arrivals for 2018 will be an increase of 4.0%. But it still lags behind the 5% growth in international tourist arrivals. Asia and the Pacific-led growth in January-September 2018, with arrivals increasing by 7%. Europe and the Middle East also recorded sound results with 6% growth; even Africa outperformed us with an increase of a 5%. Sri Lanka and Maldives will again do better than us this year. Despite all the expectations about our famous air corridor, arrivals from the People’s Republic of China continue to decrease and our relatively more expensive air fares have had an impact on the Reunion market with arrivals declining by 6.4%. These mixed results may be a wake-up call to draw our attention to some of the weaknesses and bottlenecks in the sector that have prevented us from realizing more meaningful growth rates. * * * Grade 7-Extended Programme: An approximation! If we had allowed the experienced teachers and the educationists to have their way unhindered by the cumbersome administrators and advisers, we would surely have had a better educational outcome. One of the experienced teachers has confirmed some of our earlier doubts about the Extended Programme. The findings of his in-depth survey carried out among some teachers of Zone 3 are that “the Extended Programme students have been placed in a train and the train is on its way with no definite and fixed destination.” Will they be following the mainstream education? Will they be taking part in the National Certificate of Education (NCE) exams? Everything is still unclear. There is need for a clear and precise orientation coupled with a well-defined evaluation system leading to the award for a recognized certificate of competence. * Published in print edition on 21 December 2018
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 595782424196166 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/cosmos-nouvelle-chaine-de-distribution-dans-le-paysage-mauricien/
Business AURS Company Ltd, l’entreprise leader dans l’importation et la distribution de marques internationales renommées, se lance dans la vente en détail avec l’ouverture de deux magasins, qui opéreront sous le nom de ‘Cosmos’, à Grand-Baie et à Rose-Belle, respectivement. Ainsi, les consommateurs pourront retrouver l’ensemble du catalogue de grands fabricants internationaux tels que Samsung, LG, Huawei, Midea, TCL, ou encore Trust, dans des magasins spécialement conçus pour offrir une expérience d’achat basée sur le toucher. En 2019, les promoteurs comptent mettre sur pied d’autres magasins Cosmos dans des localités clés du pays comme Port Louis, Rose Hill ou Flacq. Au fil des années, les consommateurs sont devenus plus exigeants, surtout quand il s’agit d’appareils électroménagers et électroniques. En outre, l’acheteur est constamment en quête de magasins pouvant lui offrir la meilleure expérience shopping. C’est ainsi qu’AURS, à travers Cosmos, s’engage à réunir tous ces ingrédients pour un service client qui soit ni plus ni moins irréprochable. « Cosmos est une enseigne déjà bien implantée à Madagascar qui est synonyme de qualité, en termes de produits et de services. Et nous avons choisi d’offrir au public mauricien la même expérience d’achat avec des magasins bien achalandés et un personnel formé capable d’offrir des conseils dignes de ce nom aux acheteurs », souligne Amit Shah, directeur d’AURS. Le slogan de l’enseigne, « Le bonheur d’être chez soi », traduit cette volonté de mettre le client en avant, de répondre à ses attentes et de trouver des solutions à ses problèmes. « Avec les deux succursales qui ouvriront en ce mois de décembre, et les autres magasins qui suivront en 2019, notre objectif est de nous rapprocher de la population et de nous implanter au cœur du marché mauricien en tant qu’enseigne de confiance axée sur la qualité. A travers Cosmos, nous souhaitons innover l’expérience d’achat en fournissant un large éventail de produits haut de gamme à des prix abordables », ajoute Amit Shah. Les enseignes Cosmos à Maurice disposent déjà d’un groupe de vendeurs ayant reçu une excellente formation. Par conséquent, ils possèdent une connaissance approfondie de toutes les marques représentées par la nouvelle enseigne. « Nos commerciaux sont formés pour faire des démonstrations en showroom dans le but de mieux familiariser les consommateurs aux divers produits », explique Chetan Rana, Head of Retail chez Cosmos. Comme l’achat à crédit fait partie des mœurs mauriciennes, Cosmos proposera aussi de telles facilités aux clients. En outre, pour répondre aux demandes, les magasins Cosmos proposeront une vaste gamme de produits innovants, tel que des gadgets écologiques et sans-fil à des prix abordables. * Published in print edition on 14 December 2018
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 562334197540989 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/is-this-the-role-of-the-edb/
Political Caricatures The Economic Development Board (EDB) was at the Salon National de l’immobilier in Paris promoting the investment opportunities that abound in the real estate sector in Mauritius. Is this the role of EDB? Government has set the trail and now that’s best done by the private sector. It’s time that the EDB changes its focus on these one-off investment inflows to investments in productive sectors. A closer look at its key performance indicators will give us a better idea as to whether we are getting value for the money spent. * * * A solution to the Whales and Sharks issue We are seeking the help of Greenpeace to send a strict warning on behalf of our Ministers of Fisheries and of Tourism to the whales and sharks to avoid our Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ); it will be for their own good if they could migrate to other oceans and thus avoid getting massacred by our two local Lucky Lukes. That will be in their best interest given that here, in this country, “Government is Government, and Government decides”! * * * Wake-up call of deputy leaders? They have just discovered that “à Maurice, c’est une affaire de dynasties”. As long as their position was not threatened, there was nothing wrong with the leadership — dynasty was in the other political parties, not theirs. The way they stuck to their comfort zone, following in the footsteps of their leader and yessing to supremo means that they are not any different. They are likely to perpetuate the same thing – another dynasty. * * * Jhugroo Building selected? Who wants to bet that the Jhugroo building will soon be housing the offices of Zone 4 of the Ministry of Education (MoE)? Strange coincidence: whenever you have a relative in power, your offer always turns out to be the better one. A piece of advice to the MoE. Make sure that Government does not have to pay compensation to the tune of Rs 45 million when they will be forced out with the coming of a new regime. Governments play their little games and the taxpayer remains the perpetual “dindon de la farce”. * * * Big Brother is watching!!! Safe City project. What is worrying is that it’s Mauritius Telecom, not the Police, which will be managing the system. Huawei, which is working with the Chinese government on advanced new surveillance and population-control techniques, will be providing the equipment. Another prestige project that is costing us a fortune. Watch out for the dubious accounting in the debt figures!!! Cane industry in troubled waters The sugar harvest is ending on a sour note; our small planters are unhappy and they are abandoning the harvesting of their produce. They are receiving only Rs 10,000 per ton of sugar when the market price is Rs 38,000 per ton, for molasses only Rs 2,150 per ton and barely anything for bagasse. They feel that the sugar barons are benefiting at their expense and they are being sent “straight to the slaughterhouse” while the authorities are watching passively. * * * A modern and efficient high-tech economy: Bla Blas They got the right buzzwords – the Metro, Artificial Intelligence or Blockchain – that will make us a modern and efficient country. But the future is not some place we are going to, but one we are creating. Are we creating it now? The study of Maths and Science is on a declining trend at secondary level, basic coding courses have yet to start in schools… Are we investing in a multi-skills adaptable labour force? First of all, we have to give ourselves the means to realise the efficient and modern economy. * * * Efficiency and Political nominations You want your SBM share prices to go up, lower air fares, 24/7 water availability, nice TV programmes, cheaper internet, less of financial scams , more of law and order and still pay less taxes… Get rid of the political nominees and the politically connected and replace them by proven professionals! * * * Statutory Boards and Good Governance During State Owned Enterprises’ board meetings, it’s said that most of our public servants either toe the line or are mostly dormant and become active only when tea is served. In some countries public servants are not generally appointed on statutory boards or other public bodies. If we have followed such precepts in our SOEs, we would have avoided such blatant cases of governance at its worst at the Fashion Design Institute, Mauritius Telecom, Air Mauritius, STC, FSC… you name it. And the fact that we have a sizeable number of SOEs without Directors is not arranging things either. The officers in charge can’t take decisions and tend to lean more on their parent ministries. * * * Climate Change Challenges: No more coal!!! The latest bombshell report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a kind of final call to save the world from climate catastrophe, has urged countries to respond to global warming and phase out coal power by 2050. This means that there will be mounting pressure on us to reduce our dependence on coal and move to renewable sources of energy. This will have huge cost implications. Are we preparing ourselves for these challenges when we are embarking on huge prestige projects that will be consuming lots of energy – Metro, Fintech, Safe City… ? * Published in print edition on 112 October 2018
______________________________________page_name: MauritiusTimesPage, post_id: 549638045477271 http://www.mauritiustimes.com/mt/free-education-cost-sharing/
Titbits The salvation of free education and its public schools lies in giving more fiscal space to Government to allow it to invest heavily in overhauling the education system The five students of RCC, the laureates of the Omnicane award on the theme “Enn sel lepep, Enn sel nation” question and challenge us, inter alia others, on the free education system – “Il y a beaucoup de parents qui peuvent payer. D’ailleurs, ils payent bien les leçons particulières. L’argent ainsi économisé pourrait être consacré aux plus nécessiteux. De même on aurait dû prévoir le Wi-Fi gratuit à ceux qui n’ont pas de connexion la maison…” Free education has served us well over the past five decades especially in terms of access, in improving our mean years of schooling, in enrolment in higher education and female education and in reducing socioeconomic inequality. But the education system has begun to falter for quite some time now in terms of overall efficiency and effectiveness. Nothing happens overnight. It is difficult to uncover, measure and therefore analyze the total impact of the country’s educational policies – overly free education system, school discipline, messages of overindulgence, parents’ responsibility, values system, teacher training, teachers’ salary, private tuition, teacher selection process, etc – that have led to such a state of affairs. But everyone agrees that we cannot continue with such an outdated system which has failed to bring out our students’ talent and potential and inspire them to life-long learning while meeting the country’s future needs. Today a variety of trends are utterly reshaping the education landscape – 24/7 access to online teaching, learning and discovery environments, long-life learning. The budget for education will be rising in the near future to meet these challenges of the worldwide revolution in the education system oriented towards new teaching methodology and technology. There will increasing risks that the overly free education – free transport, free exams, free meals, free stationeries – may end up being very costly. In the sense that Government will not be able to fully support the public schools; quality will continue to plunge and the state system will become dysfunctional, and most of the products of these state schools will be misfits when they get out into the real world. Government schools will become reserves for children at the very bottom of our social ladder while private schools will thrive providing a quality education for the elite. (This is what we seem to be experiencing in the health sector – a wanton deteriorating public health but improving private health. Our free public schools will only be trapping generations of students at the margins of society and locking them out of the economy. This is what our bright youthful Omnicane award winners have tried to warn us about, oblivious of the reactions of our politicians, the hardcore supporters of the Welfare State and some of our obstinate leftists. Underlying such an education system subsisting in parallel with the insidious private tuition is the fact that Government has been subsiding the elite. With the ongoing cosmetic reform of the system, it is undeniable that the latter feels that it is no longer serving its purpose and cares the least about its gradual decay. They are encouraging more and more private schools to pop up across the nation, giving well-to-do families an alternative to public education. It will no longer be feasible to continue providing wholly free education from general taxation. The salvation of free education and its public schools lies in giving more fiscal space to Government to allow it to invest heavily in overhauling the education system to meet the above-mentioned challenges. This will require that policymakers, business leaders and the universities to: a) rededicate themselves to creating a more flexible system, including improving efficiency and effectiveness, b) do away with some of the freebies of our education system, and c) introduce measures aimed at cost sharing with parents and students (exempting those on the social register) so that education funding can be supplemented by sources other than government. * * * The Metro Express: The accompanying measures soucier de savoir si le Metro Express apportera un changement de mentalité ». What are the accompanying measures that will be needed to prevent the Metro Express from becoming a white elephant given that the road infrastructure is also being improved and the number of cars on our roads continues to increase relentlessly? The just released indicators on Road Transport show a net addition of 11,826 vehicles to the existing fleet for the first semester of 2018. At end of June 2018, there were 543,623 vehicles registered at the National Transport Authority (NTA). The EDB should come forward with the accompanying measures that will follow the coming into operation of the Metro Express. The population should be prepared for that – a different mindset for both the commuter and car users. Building the Metro is one thing and ensuring that it is operating successfully and efficiently is another. We hope we will not have to go through the same mess as the measures and penalties to reduce road accidents – going backward and forward. We hope we will have enough time to analyse and discuss these measures. Our fears are that these measures, which are likely to include many controversial and hard-hitting ones on private car users, will only be announced after the next general elections. They will buy in the electorate by tricking them into taking the sweeter pill first… Short term gains for long term pains! * * * Rs15 to Rs19 billion for the Surveillance State Can we afford this huge amount for the Safe City project? Another prestige project! We can achieve equally good results by spending more on our police force. Intelligent video surveillance has become widespread in more and more numerous social and national spaces, while its effects in terms of crime prevention and/or law enforcement and community reassurance are not demonstrated. Most of the time some of the crimes are displaced to nearby areas within or close to the city centre where there is no camera coverage but where there are similar opportunities to commit crimes. Indeed research carried out shows that despite the popularity of closed circuit television (CCTV)/video surveillance, evidence of its crime prevention capabilities is inconclusive. Research has largely reported its effect as “mixed”. At such cost, to go for a system that is not that foolproof is a folly. The European Forum for Urban Security, “Charter for a Democratic Use of Video-Surveillance,” provides a useful overview of the issues at stake as well as a set of principles and tools to ensure that citizens’ rights are respected with CCTV/video surveillance systems. These include: Necessity: The use of camera systems must be justified empirically, ideally by an independent authority. Objectives and intended outcomes must be defined. Proportionality: CCTV equipment must be appropriate for the problem it is intended to address. Technology should “respond to the established objectives, without going further. Data should be protected and the length of time it is retained be clearly defined. Transparency: Citizens should know what the objectives of a CCTV/video system are, what its installation and operational costs are, the areas being surveyed, and what the results are. Reports should occur regularly so citizens can make informed decisions. Accountability: Those in charge of public CCTV systems should be clearly identified and accountable to the public, whether the systems are run by the government or private firms. Independent oversight: An external body should be charged with ensuring that systems respect the public’s rights and are achieving their stated objectives. Ideally citizens would have a voice in the oversight process. Indeed, this Charter drives us to challenge the whole approach to this Safe City project. What will be the role of Mauritius Telecom and the Chinese Company Huawei? The Agreement should be made public. * * * The Census Issue: “L’hypocrisie politicienne” In our dear little “C’est un plaisir” country, when some societal issues appear occasionally, as they do in most societies, we tend to sweep them under the carpet. After the Grand Bassin gandia issue, the LGBT march, the child marriage issue, religious conversions and now the census issue: “L’hypocrisie politicienne”, there is a common pattern. The elite, the thinkers, leaders of communities, social activists, NGOs who are always on the forefront on non-controversial issues, look the other way, burying their heads in the sands allowing the radicals, the delinquents, the hooligans, the conservatives, the religious bigots, the fanatics to take over the main stage. When some avant-gardistes delve deeper, they are castigated, threatened, boycotted… and the views of the conformist majority prevail and we go back to our comfort zone, doing business as usual. They get away with it and slowly and gradually but surely we are allowing the parasites to gnaw at our foundation. We are not building out houses on granites as Wilhelm Reich used to say — If, little man among millions, you were to shoulder the barest fraction of your responsibility, the world would be a very different place. Your great friends wouldn’t perish, struck down by your smallness.” Are we not civilised enough to even talk to each other on these… “Man’s right to know, to learn, to inquire, to make bona fide errors, to investigate human emotions must, by all means, be safe, if the word “freedom” should ever be more than an empty political slogan.” Or is it easier to ignore it, avoid the tensions these create in our minds and in society and across communities? Or is it much larger than that? There is the fear of reprobation from our community, the social pressure to conform… they have imposed their will, their linear thinking, and imprison us in their archaic conformism and attitudes. Are we afraid of being free, of being left alone on the side lines, being marginalised…? Hypocrisy is not our nature. Like Francis Fukuyma (Identity: The Demand for Dignity and the Politics of Resentment), Kwame Anthony Appiah (The Lies that bind. Rethinking Identity) and Michael Ignatieff (The Ordinary Virtues: Moral Order in a Divided World), we are prepared to engage a debate and a dialogue that looks beyond group identity and failed institutions and meritocracy. We believe that “identity politics is a symptom of democratic decay and a diversion from the real task. That is to create coalitions that can move past our differences, strengthen our shared public goods, rebuild the ladder of economic opportunity, and recognise once again the human identity we have in common.” * Published in print edition on 13 September 2018
______________________________________