page_name: ZAMBIADAILYMAIL, post_id: 2168562656571069 https://www.bbc.com/news/business-47274679
Play The founder of Huawei has said there is "no way the US can crush" the company, in an exclusive interview with the BBC. Ren Zhengfei described the arrest of his daughter Meng Wanzhou, the company's chief financial officer, as politically motivated. The US is pursuing criminal charges against Huawei and Ms Meng, including money laundering, bank fraud and stealing trade secrets. Mr Ren spoke to the BBC's Karishma Vaswani in his first international broadcast interview since Ms Meng was arrested - and dismissed the pressure from the US. "There's no way the US can crush us," he said. "The world cannot leave us because we are more advanced. Even if they persuade more countries not to use us temporarily, we can always scale things down a bit." However, he acknowledged that the potential loss of custom could have a significant impact. Last week, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned the country's allies against using Huawei technology, saying it would make it more difficult for Washington to "partner alongside them". Australia, New Zealand, and the US have already banned or blocked Huawei from supplying equipment for their future 5G mobile broadband networks, while Canada is reviewing whether the company's products present a serious security threat. Mr Ren warned that "the world cannot leave us because we are more advanced". "If the lights go out in the West, the East will still shine. And if the North goes dark, there is still the South. America doesn't represent the world. America only represents a portion of the world." What did Mr Ren say about investment in the UK? The UK's National Cyber Security Centre has decided that any risk posed by using Huawei technology in UK telecoms projects can be managed. Many of the UK's mobile companies, including Vodafone, EE and Three, are working with Huawei to develop their 5G networks. They are awaiting a government review, due in March or April, that will decide whether they can use Huawei technology. Commenting on the possibility of a UK ban, Mr Ren said Huawei "won't withdraw our investment because of this. We will continue to invest in the UK. "We still trust in the UK, and we hope that the UK will trust us even more. "We will invest even more in the UK. Because if the US doesn't trust us, then we will shift our investment from the US to the UK on an even bigger scale." image copyrightGetty Images What does Mr Ren think about his daughter's arrest? Mr Ren's daughter Meng Wanzhou, Huawei's chief financial officer, was arrested on 1 December in Vancouver at the request of the US, and is expected to be the subject of a formal extradition request. In total, 23 charges are levelled against Huawei and Ms Weng. The charges are split across two indictments by the US Department of Justice. The first covers claims Huawei hid business links to Iran - which is subject to US trade sanctions. The second includes the charge of attempted theft of trade secrets. Mr Ren was clear in his opposition to the US accusations. "Firstly, I object to what the US has done. This kind of politically motivated act is not acceptable. "The US likes to sanction others, whenever there's an issue, they'll use such combative methods. "We object to this. But now that we've gone down this path, we'll let the courts settle it." image copyrightReuters What did Mr Ren say about Chinese government spying? Huawei, which is China's largest private company, has been under scrutiny for its links to the Chinese government - with the US and others expressing concern its technology could be used by China's security services to spy. Under Chinese law, firms are compelled to "support, co-operate with and collaborate in national intelligence work". But Mr Ren said that allowing spying was a risk he wouldn't take. "The Chinese government has already clearly said that it won't install any backdoors. And we won't install backdoors either. "We're not going to risk the disgust of our country and of our customers all over the world, because of something like this. "Our company will never undertake any spying activities. If we have any such actions, then I'll shut the company down." For a man known as reclusive and secretive, Ren Zhengfei seemed confident in the conviction that the business he's built for the last 30 years can withstand the scrutiny from Western governments. Mr Ren is right: the US makes up only a fraction of his overall business. But where I saw his mood change was when I asked him about his links to the Chinese military and the government. While he answered all of my questions, he refused to be drawn into a conversation on this, only to say that these were not facts, simply allegations - and insisted that political connections are not what has led Huawei to be successful today. When I put to him the reports that his former chairwoman, Sun Yafang, had once worked with China's Ministry of State Security, he told me that her profile was up on the company's corporate website and that he didn't think it was "OK to suspect or guess where this person used to be". He also confirmed that there is a Communist Party committee in Huawei, but he said this is what all companies - foreign or domestic - operating in China must have in order to abide by the law.
______________________________________page_name: ZAMBIADAILYMAIL, post_id: 2065818210178848 https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-46548614
image copyrightAFP A second Canadian has been detained in China on accusations of harming national security, as tension continues between the two countries. It was confirmed on Thursday that Michael Spavor, a businessman, had been detained in addition to former diplomat Michael Kovrig. Canada drew Chinese protests after it arrested an executive at telecoms giant Huawei at the request of the US. Meng Wanzhou has been bailed but may face extradition for fraud. She denies violating US sanctions on Iran through Huawei's business dealings. China has threatened unspecified consequences if she is not released. So high-profile is the case that US President Donald Trump said he could intervene if it helped to avoid a further decline in relations between the US and China, which are locked in a trade war. However, Mr Trump's own officials frowned on the idea, with US Assistant Attorney General John Demers remarking: "What we do at the justice department is law enforcement. We don't do trade." Foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang addressed the matter on Thursday, saying the pair were "suspected of engaging in activities that threatened China's national security" and had been put under "compulsory measures", a usual reference to custody. Mr Lu said the "legal rights and interests of these two Canadians have been safeguarded" and that the two cases were being investigated separately. Asked if the detentions were in response to Ms Meng's arrest, he said they were part of an "operation taken by China's relevant national security authorities in accordance with the laws". Mr Lu said Ms Meng's arrest was "wrong practice", adding: "I can point out that, since the Canadian government took the wrong action at the request of the US and took Meng Wanzhou into custody, many Chinese are wondering if their trips to Canada are safe." Some China analysts were in little doubt about the reason for the detentions. Guy Saint-Jacques, Canada's former ambassador to China, told Canadian broadcaster CBC: "In China there are no coincidences... If they want to send you a message, they will send you a message." One Western diplomat in China told Reuters news agency: "This is a political kidnapping." image copyrightAFP Michael Spavor, arrested on 12 December, is a businessman based in Dandong, near the Chinese border with North Korea. He has ties to the North Korean government and has met its leader Kim Jong-un many times. Canadian foreign ministry spokesman Guillaume Bérubé confirmed that Mr Spavor had contacted it earlier in the week because "he was being asked questions by Chinese authorities". One of his most recent Facebook posts, on Sunday, said he was about to travel to Seoul in South Korea but he did not arrive on Monday as planned. Mr Spavor runs an organisation called the Paektu Cultural Exchange, which organises business, cultural and tourism trips to North Korea. He is a regular visitor to North Korea and regularly comments in the media on Korean issues. He is particularly well known for helping to arrange the visit by former NBA star Dennis Rodman to North Korea in 2013. Rodman is a personal friend of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Ex-diplomat Michael Kovrig currently works for a think-tank, the International Crisis Group (ICG), which has said it is concerned for his health and safety. He was arrested on 10 December. Mr Lu said the ICG had not been registered as a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in China and therefore it was unlawful for its staff to work there. Checks by Reuters news agency did not turn up a registration for ICG on government databases for NGOs or social enterprises. Asked about Mr Kovrig, Canada said there was no "explicit indication" of any link to the Meng case. It said his case had been raised directly with Chinese officials. The former Canadian resident was detained on 1 December in Vancouver, where she has family and property connections. image copyrightReuters The US has been investigating Huawei, one of the world's largest smartphone makers, since 2016, believing that it used a subsidiary, Skycom, to bring US manufacturing equipment and millions of dollars in transactions to Iran in violation of sanctions. The Supreme Court of British Columbia was told that Ms Meng, Huawei's chief financial officer, carried this out between 2009 and 2014. She allegedly tricked US banks into clearing transactions for Huawei which were in reality for Skycom. The banks thus became "victim institutions" of fraud. Lawyers for Ms Meng told the court that Huawei had already separated itself from Skycom. Ms Meng faces up to 30 years in prison in the US if found guilty of the charges, the Canadian court heard.
______________________________________